_By: Future Spy & The Fighting Falcon_

Note: Information on the Astrolite Explosives were taken from the book _Two Component High Explosive Mixtures_ By Desert Pub'l

Some of the chemicals used are somewhat toxic, but who gives a fuck! Go ahead!
I won't even bother mentioning _This information is for enlightening purposes only!_ I would love it if everyone made a gallon of astrolite and blew their
fucking school to kingdom scum!

## Astrolite

The astrolite family of liquid explosives were products of rocket propellant
research in the '60's.  Astrolite A-1-5 is supposed to be the world's most
powerful non-nuclear explosive -at about 1.8 to 2 times more powerful than
TNT. Being more powerful it is also safer to handle than TNT (not that it
isn't safe in the first place) and Nitroglycerin.

## Astrolite G

"Astrolite G is a clear liquid explosive especially designed to produce very
high detonation velocity, 8,600MPS (meters/sec.), compared with 7,700MPS for
nitroglycerin and 6,900MPS for TNT...In addition, a very unusual
characteristic is that it the liquid explosive has the ability to be absorbed
easily into the ground while remaining detonatable...In field tests, Astrolite
G has remained detonatable for 4 days in the ground, even when the soil was
soaked due to rainy weather" know what that means?....Astrolite Dynamite!

## To make

(mix in fairly large container & outside)

Two parts by weight of ammonium nitrate mixed with one part by weight
_anhydrous_ hydrazine, produces Astrolite G...Simple enough eh? I'm sure that
the 2:1 ratio is not perfect,and that if you screw around with it long enough,
that you'll find a better formula.  Also, dunno why the book says 'anhydrous'
hydrazine, hydrazine is already anhydrous...

Hydrazine is the chemical you'll probably have the hardest time getting
hold of. Uses for Hydrazine are: Rocket fuel, agricultural chemicals (maleic
hydra-zide), drugs (antibacterial and antihypertension), polymerization
catalyst, plating metals on glass and plastics, solder fluxes, photographic
developers, diving equipment.  Hydrazine is also the chemical you should be
careful with.

## Astrolite A/A-1-5

Mix 20% (weight) aluminum powder to the ammonium nitrate, and then mix with
hydrazine.  The aluminum powder should be 100 mesh or finer.  Astrolite A has
a detonation velocity of 7,800MPS.

## Misc.  info

You should be careful not to get any of the astrolite on you,if it happens
though, you should flush the area with water.  Astrolite A&G both should be
able to be detonated by a #8 blasting cap.
