 

The Compilation of Yotsuba Society

 

![](../images/00001.jpeg)

2011-2013

 

Ndubuisi “Jkid” Okeh

 

Ndubuisi Okeh

The Compilation of Yotsuba Society: 2011-2013

© 2014, Ndubuisi Okeh

Self published

[YotsubaSocietycontact@gmail.com](mailto:YotsubaSocietycontact@gmail.com)
| [YSJkid@gmail.com](mailto:YSJkid@gmail.com) |
[www.yotsubasociety.org](http://www.yotsubasociety.org)

ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. This book contains material protected under
International and Federal Copyright Laws and Treaties. Particularly in
the United States by the Copyright Act of 1976 and in the United Kingdom
by the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988. Any unauthorized reprint
or use of this material is prohibited. No part of this book may be
reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or
mechanical, including photocopying, recording, or by any information
storage and retrieval system without express written permission from the
author / publisher.


 

Introduction Statement regarding the Compilation

It’s has been three years since I and Xantar (who is a friend of mine
who attends anime conventions) founded Yotsuba Society. Xantar helped me
out on the site when I was in a dark place. Then it was founded the
website was not even done yet, but it did not stopped me, Xantar, and
two other buddies of his to run a panel about it and the imageboard
culture at Katsucon 17, with me cosplaying as Anonymous. The site was
understaffed as well, just me and Australian named Ottre.

But did not stopped me from making three papers on the chanverse
predecessors, maintaining an archive of 4chan threads rivaling even
4chanarchive (which is now chanarchive and now dead due to lack of
staff.) Restoring wikichan via YSchan, and at one time hosted a small
imageboard. This was despite rarely receiving any donations at the time,
a very small staff, and few emails, and a racially and developmentally
ablest harassment and stalking campaign, it was known on 4chan and
recently the Russian chanverse, that I ran a massive archive site.

It seemed like I was the only one who actually cared about 4chan to
actively preserve every thread I saved from 2007-2013, and made
researched documents about it. Even though those documents have not been
noticed until relatively recently. Not to mention that I held three more
panels about the chanverse as well.

It was not until the shutdown of the archives that it was known to the
archival community. At least I get to leave a legacy, by donating the
4chan archives to the Stanford Digital Repository. Despite the fact that
the website and my duties allowed me pad my resume with experience and
skills, it has not helped me get a job in this decimated economy.

For the most part, I’m the face of this site for the past four years,
and despite rarely receiving any correspondence, I approached each
little I got. So with this I decided to make a compilation of most of
the content that has been posted on Yotsuba Society for the past three
years.

Special thanks to all people who have helped out on or regarding the
site and on the IRC. Ottre, sparky4, antitheis, Frank\_usrs, Zomjab ,
dabeshu, Tanami/Mr.Vile, IsharaYar, Grey, Colorado, Important, Xantar,
Jouva, Charizard, Warsie, fiflel, tanaka, and whoever maintains the site
at vyrd.net for all the help over the past three to four years.

And an especial thanks to: Henry Lowood of the Curator of History of
Science & Technology and Film & Media collections at Stanford University
for inducting my archives into the Stanford Digital Repository.

-Ndubuisi “Jkid” Okeh

Co-Founder and Head Webmaster of The Society for the Study and
Preservation of Yotsuba Channel


