\

The Third Channel: Futaba Channel – The Mother of the Western Imageboard
Culture

Futaba Channel is something of a mystery for foreigners or for even
established Western channers. It may be the mother of the Western
Imageboard Culture, but its culture is not well known to the general
public or anything. Futaba Channel did not had the same mainstream
exposure 2channel did in the year 2000, nor the same media coverage it
had. Like Ayashii world and Amezou world, it remained relatively
underground, and the audience of Futaba is more narrow, underground, and
otaku than 2channel. But what Futaba Channel innovated in when it was
born revolutionized anonymous discourse forever.

Origins

Futaba channel was set up during the August crisis of 2001. The August
Crisis was the 2channel was threatened to be closed down due to
overwhelming server load due to the ever expanding use from the media
coverage. There were two responses to the August crisis; one of them was
from the Unix textboard. The other response was that a separate group of
2channelers set up another textboard as a refuge just in case it died.
The admin made a url called “2chan.net” in order to differate itself
from the 2channel url “2ch.net”.

Futaba channel started as a textboard for those 2channelers. However, it
made something of a forced evolution in a form of a feature upgrade. At
some point after the launch of Futaba channel, there was a feature
upgrade that allowed the uploading of images. In 2channel, in order to
post a picture, you have to post a link to an off-site host. Now with
Futaba channel, you can simply upload any image in jpg, png, or gif
format and have others view it. The end result is a revolution in image
sharing.

What is Futaba Channel

Futaba Channel is the world’s first imageboard website. It’s more
narrowly focused on otaku and underground topics than 2channel. The site
consists of 60 imageboards with topics “from advice to junk food, ramen,
and gore” (Futaba Channel – English Wikipedia). There are boards for
sports like baseball, soccer. There’s a mahjong board, one for animals
and one for plant life. There are cooking boards for pictures of food,
and dedicated boards for candy and ramen. Video games? There’s a board
for games and a board for MMORPGs called Net Games. There’s even a board
for politics, economics, advice, and most recently a board for the
recent Toidai Earthquake and for nuclear power issues.

The board is powered by the Futaba script. The script is named after the
name of the site, and is “considered a bastard child of the GazouBBS
script” (An irreverent guide to the many boards of Futaba Channel by
Ordinary K !3GqYIJ3Obs) The Futaba script is open source can be
customized to allow the uploading of Ops with pictures with text-only
replies, or image replies with text. This script was the basis of the
first English script 4chan used for their first incarnation the
futabully script.

The major difference that Futaba channel has over 2channel is that
content is ephemeral. Ephemerality means that content is ongoing and
never persistent. In layman’s terms it means that it will eventually
disappear. Depending on the size of the community and thus it’s posting
rate, threads can last from anywhere from ten minutes to several hours.
This is in contrast with threads on 2channel, where

threads can last for anyway from hours to days when people actively post
in them. And when the thread gets automatically locked when reached 1000
replies, it stays on the boards practically forever because they get
moved to an archive.

Another way of enforcing ephemerality is that threads depending on the
time length get pruned automatically. This is shown at the end of the OP
message “Thread marked for deletion (old)”. This indicates that the
thread has already reached it’s time frame. With content always
appearing and disappearing, people make a habit of saving content they
already created or want. This essentially creates memes out of simple
pictures.

Unlike the administrator of 2channel, who is well known in the domestic
and international media. The administrator of Futaba Channel has not
been known, in reflection of the underground nature of the site. No one
in Futaba channel knows who admins the site, nor how do other moderators
of Futaba Channel get selected or run the site. The administrator’s name
is only known as Kanrinin-san. However, in some fanart depict the
administrator of Futaba Channel as a female or a fujoshi (female otaku).

About 2007-2008 The server administrator updated the system to allow
people to delete their own posts and threads via the del link. In
addition, the system also allowed the adding and deleting boards.
Threads and posts can be reported for indecent images, personal
information, harassment, spam, and slander.

The Nijiura Boards

The heart of the Futaba channel are the Nijiura boards. The original /b/
board created (known as /b/) was about illustrations, and screenshots of
popular anime and scans from manga series, and general discussion about
anime and manga. The first nijiura board (which is mistakenly known as
/b/ in the Western World) was initially created to separate anime and
manga discussion and from captured images and fan created manga.
Eventually the doujin discussion and captured images eventually turned
into all sorts of random things about anime and otaku culture. Gag
pictures, memes, photoshopped images and all sorts of stuff which gave
birth to many net characters and in culture which made the Nijiura
boards. The popularity of the /b/ boards gave rise to four additional
boards, and then three more boards were created. Some of them have
forced anonymity, some have option of anonymity. But the Nijiura boards
have their own culture which spawned multiple gag images and net
characters. Many of them were bridge memes between Futaba and 4chan.

The word Nijiura is a combination of two phrases: “Two dimensions” and
“Flip side”. The full word for Nijiura in Japanese is “Nijigen ura”. The
word Nijiura combines Niji and ura. The Two dimensions part of the board
is reference to anime- and manga-related artwork and materials (Nijiura
wiki), than the three-dimensions of film, television, and photography.
The flipside means it’s an alternative board to the original
two-dimensional board.

Inside the Nijirua boards reside the Toshiaki. Most of the work on the
Nijiura boards is created by them where they anonymously create, modify,
and suggest ideas. Ideas can include gag pictures, to full blown
characters. Due to the high posting rate only anything that “strikes a
note with a significant number of

people stays, while ideas that fail to attract support disappear”
(ibid). With the basic requirement to remain popular with the Toshiaki,
there are no true guidelines.

The Nijiura boards have become a symbol of Futaba channel. There are
seven nijiura boards in all of Futaba: img, dat, may, jun, nov, dec, and
cgi. Each nijiura subdomain has a difference in culture and content, and
they have their own original characters and mascots. In particular, the
may nijiura subdomain is often used to test various functions thus they
call that subdomain of nijiura the experimental board. The may server is
also considered more friendly to foreigners who are able to post on
Futaba and new futaba channers than the other Nijiura boards.

A glance of the Nijiura Boards

Img – The first ninjiura board and the “largest creative force” of the
five, as most content in created there. Forced anonyminity. No image
replies

Dat – Forced anonymity. No image replies.

May – Public nijiura board. Experimental board. More friendly to new
comers than the rest. Less porn and more focused on real world stuff

Jun – Public ninjiura board. The porn board. More focused on hentai and
loli content. (http://tanasinn.info/wiki/Nijiura)

Nov – Unknown, hidden

Dec – latest nijiura board. Not much information about it, except that
it’s public.

Cgi – unknown, hidden

Toshiaki – the /b/tard of Futaba

The /b/ boards are different from the regular imageboards of futaba
because their default anonymous name is not “Nameless” but “Toshiaki”.
The default name was changed in April 12, 2003 “honor” of the lifeless
spammer/crapflooder Toshiaki.

It’s unknown how the /b/ boards got changed to that default name but to
our knowledge and from our YS Historian IshiharaYar, here is our theory:

Futaba Channel has always been plagued by crapflooding (another way of
saying spam) since its inception. Despite blocking foreigner IPs from
Futaba, it doesn’t prevent domestic crapflooding. Most spammers do their
spamming anonymously without using a name. What made Toshiaki different
was that one he did it in /b/, a place where you are expected to remain
anonymous as much as possible.

So what that spammer did and he adopted the name of Toshiaki. Using that
handle he constantly spammed threads on /b/ with the usual crap
flooding. But for some reason or another people of /b/ thought it was
funny that he adopted a username to begin with. Eventually other futaba
channers adopted the same name because it was funny. The toshiaki
crapfests ironically brought the community

together because Toshiaki was unique to /b/. The admin thought the same
thing, and decided to change the default name of the /b/ boards to
Toshiaki.

Further research revealed that not that the original Toshiaki not only
crapflooded, he shitposted on Futaba’s /b/. He was a “particularly
insistent user” who shitposted on various threads in a satirical,
trollish manner. (Secchan Nijiura Wiki) Eventually, the /b/ users of
Futaba adopted the name and begun copying his style of posting. With so
many of them posting under the name, the admin changed the default name
of the Nijiura boards to Toshiaki.

However for a brief period from July 15th, 2004 to May 25th, 2005 the
administrator briefly removed the default names in changes of the
script. Later img and dat /b/ were the only ones that have that change
and the name field was removed entirely. Those boards are the forced
anonymous boards, where there is no true name,「」,“representing an
empty quotation, much like ""”. (ibid) The other Nijirua boards still
use the Toshiaki name though.

Depending on the situation, the word Toshiaki can be said in a number of
ways. It can be often shortened to Toshiaki. This tradition expanded for
“who take a name for themselves” in the Nijiura boards, by ending their
usernames in “-aki”, like Me-tan as in the creator of ME-tan .
(ibid)This tradition is continued in other contexts in Futaba Channel as
well, such as the yuri board (Yuriaki), the img and dat boards as kakkou
or kakkou-aki, and female Nijiura channers (Joshiaki). Even when in
meetups outside of Futaba Channel, they refer to themselves as Toshiaki.

Toshiaki is also depicted as a character called “ore”, a character born
from a self-portrait festival on the Nijirua boards. The original image
is a scary depiction of Toshiaki that was actually drawn from a user
named “scary Toshiaki” drew him as a self-portrait (ibid) Ore is a more
scary and more depraved version of the character and there are different
versions of the style of the style of character. Even in colored art
work, he’s often drawn in grayscale.

Some of the rules of Nijirua

According to Shii there are some unwritten rules of /b/. These are two
primary ones.

​1. Hantoshi-rom is a Japanese saying for "You must only read this board
for six month". In plain English this means before you post crap like a
newbie, you must lurk for at least six months, before posting. After six
months, you will be able to post decent stuff like any other toshiaki.
Another variant of this is Kuuki Yome or “read the air or feel the
atmosphere”. In slang terms, it means “don’t be stupid”.
(http://j-comixxx.livejournal.com/18628.html)

​2. Stay anonymous as possible. Futaba Channel is an anonymous
imageboard, names or individuality is quite unnecessary unless you have
to. “One toshiaki is as good or as a loser as another”

Well known memes and gag images

The Nijirua boards have produced well known memes, net characters, and
gag images that many 4channers don’t notice. You might recognize some of
them as bridge memes, memes that cross over from one chan to another.

OS-tans: The OS-tans are a series of cute, moe net characters based
primarily on the Windows series of operating systems. Depicted as women
and related as sisters of varying ages, they represent each windows
operating system by height, age, and by breast size. The first OS-tan,
Me-tan, was created at August 6, 2003. Me-tan was depicted as fickle,
troublesome girl in a maid suit complete with green hair with an idiot
strand.

Some Toshiaki artists included a setting where Toshiaki owns a PC. With
that comic strip then a group of women which they personify every
operating system he owns. The first OS-tans were from the Windows
operating system. Then the Mac OS line was created, and then other
software lines were created. There’s also a male counterpart to the
OS-tan’s called OS-kuns.

Ninjura Maids: A collection of maid characters that serve Toshiaki. Most
of the creation of the maids involves puns based on their personalities.
The first maid that was created out of the series is Medoi-san, an
apathtic maid that finds everything to be a bother. Other maids include
Kudoi-san the maid who speaks a lot and keeps rambling on, Modoi the
maid that is angry and impatient at everything, and Nemui, a tired maid
who’s always drowsy and carries a pillow. There are 15 maids in all in
character series.

One of the maids that crossed over to our side as a bridge net character
is Yakui-san. Yakui is a maid who is addicted to drugs and
pharmaceuticals. He’s one the primary mascots of 420-chan along with
TCC-chan. Despite the fact that she’s addicted to drugs, she’s actually
adorable.

Gaijin 4koma (Bridge). A 4panel comic which has mutated into many
variations. The 4koma usually interpose boredom and excitement images
with good and bad images. The action images used a image of 4 attendees
at E3 “responding to news of a Zelda video game” (Futaba Channel –
Everything Shii Knows). The images have also been used as models for
anime characters, video game characters, and even Touhou characters
drawn in the same poses.

Yaranaika: Is a phrase meaning “Shall we do it”. The phrase is a double
entendre suggesting anal sex. It was used in a homosexual erotic comic
book "Kuso Miso Technique" (Shit Soup Techniuqe). The original manga was
discovered by Ayashii worlders in 2002, but ignored. In 2003, Futaba
Channers discovered the manga years later and was endlessly parodied by
Futaba users. It triggered a “Yamajun boom" of interest in Junichi
Yamakawa's work not only in Futaba, but also in 2channel.

BIKECAT: A cat that sit’s in the basket of a bike. Often times the cat
is depicted in the streets of Nagoya Japan. His endearingly grumpy
personality makes him even cuter. But not only his personality makes him
even cuter, it’s interpreted as a quality of a leader or even a god.
It’s pictures were crossed over to iichan’s /b/ board and WTFux.org cat
imageboard. BIKECAT pictures can be seen at Soviet Russia’s Meow board.

There are other memes and catchphrases that originated on Futaba
Channel. Such as MIYOCO, Mageres, Mr.Munday, Musashi GUN-DO, a Master is
OUT, Longcat, Nevada-tan, Moetron, the Waha character, and the Kimoi
girls. They are listed on the Tanashin wiki, and Shii’s everything knows
wiki as well.

The Net Runner Incident

Netrunner was a magazine about computers and computer technology. They
were famous for publishing illegal information like hacking
irresponsibly. The magazine introduced an imageboard browsing software
named Berry in one issue. That issue was responsible for creating a
surge of traffic to Futaba as well as many inexperienced people who know
nothing about the atmosphere of the site. But that wasn’t the thing that
angered them.

Around 2003, the magazine decided to copy Futaba characters and sold
merchandise based on the characters at the dismay of many Toshiaki. So
much a deep enmity is sown, that many Futaba Channers made a campaign
against Netrunner and its readers. Futaba Channers created various
images basically telling Netrunner reads that they are not welcome to
Futaba. More specifically“禁ネトラン厨” ,“No NetRunners allowed”. This
type of image can be seen in every fan site of Futaba’s Culture.

Netrunner magazine eventually went out of existence in 2009.

Legacy

The futaba script since its open source allows many Japanese to build
similar styled imageboards. Thus you have a whole set of Japanese
imageboards, many of them are unknown to the English speaking community
and has yet to be studied and documented by the Western World. There is
even one imageboard, which is secret which is dedicated to preservation
of the creativity of the Toshiaki of Nijiura.

Relationship with 2channel and Futaba Channel

Futaba Channel originally became a refuse for 2channelers when it was
threated with closure due to the ever expanding server use. After the
end of the crisis, most of the 2channelers left Futaba culture. As an
end result Futaba Culture made its own culture, despite some
similarities with2channel culture. However, they consider 2channel
culture and, by extension NicoNocoDouga Culture, conflicts with Futaba
culture.

International

People who are not living in areas with Japanese IPs are allowed to view
Futaba Channel. However, they are not allowed to post due to several
incidents from crapflooding/spam and DDoS attacks from foreigners.
Particularly people from the Republic of South Korea and the People’s
Republic of China. Due to the fact that foreigners are not allowed to
post and contribute to Futaba Channel due to the language barrier and
culture barrier, 4chan was created for Westerners to have their own
Futaba Board. In a sense, an English 2chan.

However the birth of Futaba Chanel and 4chan had a result of the
creation a whole world of imageboards, not in the Japan but in the
Western World. As a matter of fact 2chan influenced not only 4chan’s
culture and structure, but the culture and structure of the Western
Imageboard Culture.
(http://lang-8.com/235151/journals/794817/thinking-about-4-chan-by-2chan-mad)
As a matter of fact, if it wasn’t for Futaba Channel, we would not have
4chan.


