\

The Origins of Anonymous

PART I

There exist three forms of anonymous. The first form represents the
legions of internet users who visit anonymous imageboards and textboards
such as 2ch, 2chan, 4chan, and similar internet sites in the Western
World. The second form is a personification of the internet users, who
represent no identifying race, skin color, or gender. Finally, there is
the stand-alone complex, which is like an organization, but it has no
true command structure or true standard operating procedure. Each one of
these forms merit examination on an anthological level.

The first origin of Anonymous, the default username of people who choose
not to use a username on the imageboards can be traced back to Ayashii
World. The word is known by its Japanese characters as Nameless or
nanashi. Its Japanese kanji characters are known as名無し.The kanji
combination can be separated into individual characters:名- or‘na’
represents“name”, and無 – or“mu” represents naught.し-is merely a
suffix, but when combined with mu and shi it combines into“without”. So
literally the word Nameless can be known as “Without a name”. This
tradition of the use of the “nanashi” as a default name continued
throughout the textboards of Ayashii and other textboards until 2channel
was established.

When 2channel was established, they adopted the tradition of using
Nanashi as a default name for people who post anonymously. But as more
boards were built by 2ch, more variations of the default name appeared.
Some of the variations like from the Pokémon board (Nameless, I Choose
You), the windows board (Nameless\~3.exe), PC Games board (Nameless
Ambition), and general railway’s board (The Nameless GO! Based on the
title “Densha de GO!”). There are just many boards that have variations
of the nameless default use. As a matter of fact, you can view a whole
list of default names that are currently used in 2channel in Japanese
at: http://logo.s3.xrea.com/\_nanasi.xhtm

There is one major exception to this rule: The VIP board. The VIP board
(or by its proper full title NEWS4VIP), was originally for awful
threads, banned posters, and spam threads that were on the site’s
various boards that were removed by 2ch’s staff (Similar to The
Something Awful Forums Comedy Gas Chamber). But actual people came to
the boards and pretty much used it as a general chatroom. While you may
think that NEWS4VIP may be for news by Very Important People, it has
little to do with any with current and breaking news. There are a wide
range of topics that are discussed in the board as there is something to
talk about daily. Overtime they created their own culture, style of
writing, and memes on top of 2channel’s culture. Eventually they even
their own nickname as a default name known as VIPPERS.

The origin of the name VIPPER was not clear, but the name was adopted
because “the name sounded good at the time”.

When 2chan was created, eventually there was a /b/ or several /b/ boards
for 2-D (animated/anime topics) and 3-D (real world) content. And that
/b/ at the time was spammed by a user named “Toshiaki” who was to 2chan
a “lifeless spammer troll”. Eventually the people who regularly go to
/b/ adopted the name. Eventually it was adopted as a default username on
2chan’s /b/.

Then a person named Christopher “moot” Poole created 4chan, translated
“Nanashi” as “Anonymous”, and the rest is history. Well, until the idea
of imageboards arrived in Russia in 2006. While channers there post
anonymously, they often signed their posts and replies. Typical
signatures include the name of the city they are from and the Japanese
honorific "-kun". For example, someone from Omsk (the largest city in
Siberia) might sign their posts "Omsk-kun". This practice allows users
from the same city or region to exchange information. Especially due to
the fact that the Russian media is controlled by the government and
hopelessly biased, so imageboards in Russia are a good source of news
for many people living in the country. (And yes, Image boards are well
used in Russia.)

There are several boards that continue this tradition in different ways.
Major examples include 7chan and iichan. Both are strongly associated
with 4chan in two ways. The former was a refuge for 4channers when the
site was having server problems in it's early history. The latter is
being the home of "the real /b/" and preserving 4chan's meme based
culture.

7chan’s /b/ usually takes a random username per month and on their /a/
board (which the board structure is entirely in Japanese text) the
default name is Anonymous-san. iichan on the other hand has many
different default usernames depending on the board you go to. People who
go to the news board are known as junior field reporters. The random
board has different usernames based on the British 1800s. The users of
the video games board are known as “Wii, the people” as a play on the
words “We the people” on the preamble of the US Constitution. Cosplayers
who go to the cosplay board are known as “Anonymous Cosplay
Connoisseur”. The Final Fantasy board users are known as “Random
Encounters”.

Other imageboards that have little to do with 4chan, often play with the
names that users can adopt. The General Told Discussion board (/told/)
denizens are called Unbannable Macfags. In Pooshlmer’s Touhou board
users are known as “nameless fairies”. And in OPERATORchan: people are
known as “OPERATORS”, based on the OPERATOR in-joke on 4chan’s /k/.
Because all users have the same name, these are just different ways of
getting users to embrace anonymity.

PART II

Many 4channers do know about Anonymous, the infamous net character that
is manifested in the real world as people with Guy Fawkes masks or
occasionally as a silhouette of a person wearing a two piece suit with
no head. But many do not know the origins of the net character itself.
Not even modern /b/tards know the origins of this form of anonymous. But
it’s still worth looking at to understand this important piece of \*chan
culture.

In order to understand this character we first have to define what a net
character is. A net character is a personification of an item of
character or a fictional person who is borne from the internet. When I
mean born from the internet I mean, created from the internet. Good
examples of Net Characters can be found on two sites: iichan’s Net
Character’s board, and 4chan’s /nc/ board.

From the iichan’s /nc/ board (http://www.wakachan.org/os/wakaba.html) we
can see various characters such as Vocaloids, personifications of foods,
signs, Windows Operating systems, Hetalia, and ones based on video games
such as Portal. The 420’s version of the net characters board
(http://boards.420chan.org/nc/) feature western characters like from
Homestuck, yurikki from the touhou project, yakui and tcc-chan (the
personification of 420chan) The 2chan net character board (2chan net
character board: http://dat.2chan.net/10/futaba.htm) is similar to
iichan’s character board but there a few differences. There is a more
focus on the nijura maids, the OS-tans and other personifications. Plus
there is a focus on not safe for work material as well.

Net Characters: Characters borne from the internet.

The vocaloid characters are based on are a series of vocal synthesizers
that were released by a Japanese company known as Crypton Future Media.
The first in the series is Hatsune Miku, a female vocaloid. Later as the
product became popular, more vocaloids were created such as Kagamine Rin
and Len, Kaito, Kamui Gakupo (based on the voice of Gackt), Megurine
Luka and many others. Their characters are the subject of many fan art,
songs produced by them by friends, and have a large fan base and cosplay
that persist to this day. They even have their own \*chan called
mikuchan.org

Second, is the Nijiura maids. The Nijiura maids were born from Fubata
Channel’s /b/ (also known as the Nijiura boards). They are a collection
of characters dressed in maids most of whose “personalities are based on
puns involving their names”
(http://danbooru.donmai.us/wiki/show?title=nijiura\_maids). There are
fifteen primary maids of Nijiura some of them based on apathy, anger,
chattiness, confusion, beauty, and even one on size. One of them is
Yakui the medicine maid.

According to the Nijirua Maid Love website by shii, her name is based
from薬餌 【やくじ】, medicine. She is addicted to all kinds of drugs
medical and in 420chan’s case, recreational. She usually has mouth drool
coming out and wears handcuffs. Problem is if Yakui is adorable, why she
wears handcuffs? (http://shii.org/maids/yakui) For some reason, Yakui is
the most known of all the Nijura maids. Particularly on 420chan’s /nc/
board (formually /yakui/)

Finally, we have the OS-tans. The OS-tans are personifications on
Windows operating systems such as Windows 95, Me, XP, Vista, and Seven.
They’re all depicted as females, but there are some male counterparts to
the OS-tans known as OS-kuns. The concept of the OS tan’s begun with
Windows Me personification on Fubata Channel. With Windows Me there was
an eventual series known as Trouble Windows.
(http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OS-tan http://www.otakubell.com/os-girls/
http://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Main/OS-tan)

There are other types of Net Characters: Personifications based on
pokemon, countries, touhou, wiki’s, and other as well.

Now with the introduction to Net Characters out of the way, I want to
introduce you to the Net Character of Anonymous. Like Nijiura maids, and
OS, it was created by 4chan’s /b/. To some /b/tards he is known as Old
Anon. When I mean Old Anon I do not mean an elderly person, I mean a the
classic anonymous most /b/tards and some 4channers know instead of the
new “Project Chanology” anonymous that has spread to a stand-alone
complex.

Old Anon usually manifests itself as a person who wears a black two
piece suit with a white shirt, red tie (or sometimes a black tie) and
dark shoes. The person itself is usually completely covered in green,
more specifically the face and hands. The face itself may be covered
green with no facial features, few facial features, a sign that says “No
picture required”, or a face with a question mark. Even the question
mark can be colored white, yellow, or black depending on the creator. In
some cases it shows a mouth, with the rest of the face covered.

Now the words “no picture available” was the first appearance of
anonymous. It appeared as a picture on 4chan’s /b/ as a silhouette of a
picture with a green face with the words “no picture available.” The
possible earliest appearance of the net character was noted at ‎Tuesday,
‎December ‎14, ‎2004, ‏‎2:38:12 AM (fight4chan) The picture and image
spread on. There are many variations of anonymous out there. There’s a
early image of him at Saturday, ‎January ‎08, ‎2005, ‏‎11:38:18 PM
(hyperfighting)

However, the first major appeared of the old anon may come from
sage-man, which is a flash animation by former 4chan moderator Okk. That
is when it Evolved to a man with a suit at 2006 (4chan)

But the character of old anonymous itself, we don’t know the true
origins of the character. However, we can trace it to an old painting
called the Son of Man.

The Son of Man – or by it’s French name “Le fils de l’homme” is a 1964
paiting by the Belgian surrealist painter.

At least it hides the face partly. Well, so you have the apparent face,
the apple, hiding the visible but hidden, the face of the person. It's
something that happens constantly. Everything we see hides another
thing, we always want to see what is hidden by what we see. There is an
interest in that which is hidden and which the visible does not show us.
This interest can take the form of a quite intense feeling, a sort of
conflict, one might say, between the visible that is hidden and the
visible that is present.

(Source: Torczyner, Magritte: Ideas and Images, trans. Richard Millen
(New York: Harry N. Abrams), p.172.)

In the context of imageboards, we see the visible (the context and the
message), but we do not see the hidden (the identity of the person or
the true side). The apparent face is the name, hiding the visible but
hidden, the true identity of the person. On imageboards, it’s something
that happens routinely. Every thread you read has a message, hides
another thing, we always want to know what is hidden by what we see.

There are several similarities of the Son of Man and Old Anon: The black
suit, red tie, and white shirt are the same. Main difference is the
covering of the face with the apple, you can see the part of one eye but
not the entire face. But in the old anon you can see the general shape
of the face but not the true side of the face you can see any of its
real facial features. Minor differences include no green gloves and but
there is a hat.

But it’s not only on the internet where can you see this
personification. It’s in real life where you can also see this
personification of anonymous in the same varieties like in online.
Occasionally seeing one without the mask or in radically different
forums. But there are many ones that have a familiar face…from a certain
movie (and actually an comic book based on the film) called “V from
Vedetta” simply called V.

From that face was known as New Anonymous. Born from the Project
Chanology protests of 2008 they reflect the mocking of scientology
rather than actual protests. But eventually that mask evolved from its
Chanology origins into the moral (aka moralfag) faction of Anonymous.

BONUS INFO: Toshiaki.

Believe it or not, Toshiaki from 2chan’s /b/ do have a net
personification. It comes in two forms: The first form is a young male
with a white shirt and black hair, with its eyes covered (if faced by
the camera) or his head turned away from the screen. He also accompanied
with a personal Ninjura Maid called Medoi.

(http://shii.org/maids/medoisanmedoisan.png) Another form of Toshiaki is
manifested a neckbearded male with glasses and medium long hair.
Occasionally with a blanket because he's a NEET and can't afford the
electric bill. (Those images of that form of toshiaki can be found on
this thread:http://yschan.org/ys/res/78.html\#i80)

A Side Note: While the net personification of anonymous represents the
average channer, there is no true personification of 4chan similar to
what 420chan has (TCC-chan). While there are attempts to personify 4chan
similar to what other popular internet and social network sites have
been treated to, they either accentuate the anonymity of the site, or
the shock nature portion of the site. A possibly real reason why 4chan
can’t be personified is that it has many boards (some 50 of them) and if
anyone tries to personify the website, the personality of the character
would be schizophrenic.

Part III

We know Anonymous as an average channer on the imageboards and
textboards. We also know him as a unique net character manifested on the
internet by the \*chans. The third origin of Anonymous however stems
from these two things, but not a regular organization, but more of a
stand-alone complex. An organization that does not have any true
leadership, just any bunch of people united for one cause using the name
for publicity. While the use of Anonymous as an organization started
with Project Chanology, the origins of this go way back in 2006.

The word “stand-alone complex” is fitting, because the same concept is
similar to the plot of the two Ghost in the Shell anime series (1st and
2nd GIG). In the context of imageboards, a standalone complex is
basically a group of people, any group of people, take a name of the
organization and use that name for any reason for any purpose. It can be
for entertainment, it can be for serious business, it can be to send a
political message. It can be for collaborate, it can be fore
“international hactivisim, undertaking protests”, invading other
websites, or just doing shit for the lulz. (Anonymous – Business
Insider) They don’t need to take up any leadership position because
they’re just a group of people (standalone) using the name as part of a
big organization (complex). Like a standalone complex, more people use
the name to further the name’s agenda, and it just builds and builds
reputation among the public.

This is similar to the use of the username as a shared identity. Since
many channers post anonymously on the \*chans, that same concept is
applied in group actions. It’s is a decentralized, shared identity that
any person could use. No one has created, no one has owned it.

Due to the fact that the name is used as a shared identity a way how it
was originally created in the there is no true leadership. It merely
relies on the “collective power of its individual participants acting in
such a way that the net effect benefits the group.” (Ibid). What is
similar to the collective power of individual participants in a net
effect? A hivemind.

The hivemind nature of imageboards, particularly high activity ones such
as 4chan’s make the concept of a shared identity more relevant in
examining this topic. There is just a flow of text and information that
flows daily like a chatroom. Even in boards outside of /b/ there is just
so many pictures you can see and view information you can learn from.
Even if you’re not into the hivemind, you still feel the effects of it.
But the major difference of imageboards from static forums it is
empheriual and anonymous coming from various anonymous channer’s. With
no difference of people their opinion, knowledge, and information is
treated equally. Therefore all decisions are made with this in mind.

 

To further understand Anonymous as a standalone complex, we have to look
toward /b/ in the past were about anime and Japanese culture. But when
it came popular normal people were interested in it. As more people got
into /b/ the culture changes from just purely Japanese culture to
somewhat real world topics. Around 2006-2007 it was in a mixed stage
there was a mix of Japanese culture and real world culture. But the main
culture if /b/: The lulz, still remained.

What is the lulz?

Originally, the word” lulz” is a corruption of lol or laugh out loud. A
good theory of how lol was corrupted into lulz is that “lol” was
corrupted by the initials “lul” then it was corrupted again when “lols”
was turned into “lulz”. Apparently the “z” was accidently typed in for
“s”. That is one theory how we know the true origin of the word “lulz”.

But what /b/ was into at its early years was a unique form of comedy.
Comedy that is based on “shock humour, including genres of cringe,
surreal, and black comedy” (ibid). Comedy that is for their amusement of
those out of someone else’s expense even if it’s at the expense of other
people or sensitivities. It was due to the mixture of the no rules
policy and the fact that people are mostly anonymous at /b/ it turned
into a twisted version of real life. Eventually they did something to
get more comedy, out of a real person’s emotions.

Raids

Internet raids are spontaneous attacks to a website or an individual.
The sole purpose of a raid is to take down a website to harass an
individual into giving up. They take place routinely but only major ones
get major publicity. Many raids are small and involve invading threads
or forums with spam or with posts dissing the owner or users. Many raids
can be warded off with various tools owners have with their disposal.
Forum raids involving a large amount of forum users or multiple chans
are called invasions.

There are two types of raids. The first one is a spontaneous attack to
punish a site or forum. This can be done by creating accounts to spam
posts on threads on the victim’s board. Some raids include simply DoSing
or DDoSing the forum into offline status. In some cases, the raiders
find security vulnerabilities and use it to tear the forum up from the
inside out, destroying user databases and forum data. In serious cases ,
they deface the front page of the site and/or release personal details
of the users (also known as dox, leetspeak for “documents”)

The second raid is to harass an individual. This can be done in various
ways. Some of them including prank calling them with obscene messages,
or in the case of channers: sprouting /b/ memes. Some include calling
the nearby pizza place and ordering them pizza, or prostitutes (wanted
or not). Other types include typing in obscene or harassing emails or
threatening emails.

 

Internet raids are nothing new on the internet. The Something Awful
Forums in the past were well known for their users (known as “Goons”)
going to other forums for various reasons such for stealing content from
their site and websites that deal with immoral acts such as pedophilia.
Some of them were admin sanctioned, such as the infamous one against
Ebaums world. Often times these raids involve crap flooding the site
with spam or using various programs to DDOS. But the great majority of
raids are minor ones that go after other forums for any reason.

The earlier raids from the chans were mostly internet borne and mostly
involve disrupting shit up or to a further extent: “fucking shit up”

The Pre-Project Chanology Era

Enter Tom Green:

August 16th, 2006 was the start of the first major raid by 4channers.
And it was through a phone call show named Tom Green LIVE! /b/ decided
to pull a little stunt, by calling the show and spouting ever 2006 /b/
meme such of “Desu” spamming, "Pool's Closed", and "do a barrel roll!"
(Encyclopedia Dramatica – Tom Green), all of which were popular 4chan
catchphrases. After an hour Tom Green got fed up and said "thanks to you
assholes this will no longer be a call in show". However, Tom Green
apparently never heard of something called a “call screener”, and
apparently neither had the show called GirlTalk, which was spammed with
/b/tards meme sprouting after the Tom Green show ended.

The Tom Green Raid was a good example of disrupting shit up. Habbo Hotel
is another good example of “disrupting shit up”. Many people do know
what the Habbo raids involved a bunch of /b/tards dressed up as black
people with suits (which /b/tards called them “nigras” for the purposes
of the raids) blocking pools on the virtural space, and saying “Pool’s
Closed due to Aids” which is a play on the racist connotations and
ignorance of how AIDS is actually spread.

But many channers do not know what that despite the racist connotation
of the raids, it was the perceived racism of the Habbo mods that started
the raids in the first place.

Apparently there was a rumor spreading about that Habbo mods were
banning black characters for no good reason. So what they did was the
equivalent of “you fuck with one black dude, you have to fuck with all
of them”. Thus the /b/tards decide to raid Habbo hotel with the
following “black man with afro, suit, matching creased pants, and black
loafers” (Encylopedia Dramatica –The Great Haboo Raid of July 2006) and
they proceeded the block the hotel’s pools. In addition they said racist
chants, and performed a swastikas with the intent to anger the Habbo
mods.

There was an actual real life protest based on this raid that was
documented on /b/ as well.

The other raids were of the example of “tearing shit up”. After the
Habbo and tom green raids, they decided to raid other forums for the
lulz. Forums Such as proana.us, myg0t, teenbabynet, and wikifur were
targeted in the raids. Their tactics include crapflooding the forums
with spam, MySQL injections to take a advantage of security
vulnerabilities, taking advantage of weak protections on the server end
of the site the end user by discovering their passcodes to vandalizing
the site. Oh yeah, vandalizing wiki’s.

As an end result team4chan (the moderators of 4chan) had enough and moot
posted a sticky on /b/ announcing that anyone who posts threads
containing illegal content (and raids) “will get you permabanned and
possibly arrested, and that even people who REPLY to illegal threads
will receive a two-week global ban, with the definition of "illegal
threads" referring to CP, jailbait, personal info, and raids”. (Wikichan
– The Complete History of 4chan) Despite the fact there was a massive
outcry from the /b/tards and multiple stickies were removed and
reposted, this policy is still in forced for all boards to this day.

While raids like this happen, they rarely at the magnitude of the early
years. The closest to the magnitude of the Forum invasions of the past
were Operation Overlord (aka 4chan vs. tumblr).

The Racist Pig Hal Turner:

Around December 20th 2006 Hal Turner, a racist pig (and holocaust
denier) planned his final broadcast of his radio show. However a massive
raid, led by 4chan and followed by 7chan,the Something Awful Forums ,the
YTMND forums, and (yes) Ebaums world was planned at the same day to show
Hal what the internet really thought of him. Most of the actual raid
consisted of prank phone calls directed to him. However while many of
the phone calls dot actually reached him, they disrupted the phone line
in such a way that many people who actually wanted to call him could not
got a chance to.

In response, he decided to go after the trolls involved the raid. After
the raid he posted “all the prank callers' phone numbers on his website,
encouraging his fan base to strike back.“ (Encylopedia Dramatica – Hal
Turner) He did so he won’t do most of the work himself. In response,
channers everywhere found Hal Turners criminal record, his address, and
other personal details. That led to channers calling his house to harass
the fuck out of him. The same records also ruined his Christmas dinner
with his family.

After being trolled by a raid loli known as Frecka, shutting down his
website, and making death threats, he decided revive the show. However
it ended up being raided again by 4channers. In particular one /b/tard
who did his usual meme sprouting over the phone ensured that Hal’s
carrer of racist fuckery was dead. While did filed lawsuits against
4chan, 7chan regarding the incidents, the lawsuit failed because Hal
refused to respond to the responses.

In the end, the Internet won and the racist pig finally quit the
internet forever. Currently he’s in the federal barbed wire hotel for
sending death threats to federal judges.

The Project Chanology Era.

The Project chanology era begun at Feb 2 2008 after a back and forth
conflict with the Church of Scientology over a leaked YouTube video.
4chan’s /b/ retaliated with Project Chanology. Project chanology begun
with “DDoS attacks, made prank phone calls and even prank-faxed
pictures” to many offices of scientology (Convergencemag). Eventually
these protests evolved into something more of a real life protest of
Scientology in various offices. To represent themselves as channers they
use the mask of “because faces are concealed behind 17th century
revolutionary Guy Fawkes masks” (ibid) These protest started in cities
such as Orlando Florida, Santa Barbara, California and even in
Manchester, England. But eventually evolved into more cities as the
raids progressed. Even /b/tards and 4channers advertised these real life
protest dates and the protest in general during Katuscon (a anime
convention) in the year 2008.

The great majority of the real life raids on Scientology were just for
the lulz. Channers protest by saying /b/ memes. And just did mock
protests of scientology. But they did cover their faces due to the fear
of reprisals form the Church of Scientology.

Eventually chanology begun to create something of a split between people
who do these raids for the lulz and people who perform these raids for a
real true purpose. Essentially, the people who are part of the anonymous
movement are people should use their power to “accomplish something they
see as a social good or to counteract some injustice.” (Crude,
Inconsistent Threat: Understanding Anonymous) Those people are called
moralfags because they have a moral reason for their actions instead of
doing it for kicks.

Post-Project Chanology Era

This split of morality has been used for the basis of other raids based
on the name but not the original spirit of Anonymous. Examples include
political protests such as the Iranian uprising/election protests,
Operation Titstorm, and Operation Avenge Assange. The recent various
middle eastern uprising protests such as operation Tunisia, Algeria, and
Egypt had the same treatment.

But other raids for the lulz did happen though despite the split between
the moralfags and the original stand-alone complex: Such as the SOHH and
ALLHipHop raids, and the No Cussing Club book expose. YouTube Porn Day
as retaliation of YouTube banning a user who was the King of /b/. The
harassment of Justin Bieber. The elaborate Time Person of the Year 2008
prank. Operation Overlord was the latest one that was done for the lulz

Then you have organizations that are not associated with the anonymous
“identity”, but it’s obvious that they’re part of the chan culture. Such
entities include such as lulzsec or Lulz Security who was behind the
security breach of Sony ending up in the temporary shutdown of the
Playstation Network.

How does Anonymous as a stand-alone complex take action for raids?

There are three basic guidelines when Anonymous takes action. First, do
it for the lulz, or comedy. Second, internet censorship for any reason
is bad for free speech. Finally, but not the least important is don’t
hurt cats (or any other animal). The third basic guideline was known in
many instances where /b/ intervened in cases of animal cruelty, mostly
involving cats (ie. Dusty the Cat). But those are basic, loose
guidelines that had been observed when taking action.

Now you know how anonymous works as a stand-alone complex. Not a group,
or some sort of elite hackers on steroids like some Fox News wants you
to think of.


