(Last updated September 27th 2011)

Ahh, I’ve been planning to write this one for awhile: an entire article
on archival quality media. As I do professional software development as
well as professional photography (what a weird combination), I need
archival quality CD and DVD media to store my data on.

However, one of the hardest things to is actually *find* good media, or
even understand why it is good media. This article focuses on the
history of Compact Discs, writable CD/DVD media, and why DVD+R is
superior to DVD-R. If you want to just know what media is worth buying,
skip to the summary at the bottom.

**Short history of the Compact Disc**\
The invention of the Compact Disc has had a large impact on both music
and computing in the last 20 years. Invented in 1979 as a joint project
between Sony and Philips to counter the self-destructive nature of
consumer audio playback (such as tapes and records that could only be
played so many times before the recording degraded significantly) by
switching to a resilient digital format.

The CD was also designed to store standard computer data, as in 1985 the
first CD drives for computers were released; massive, bulky, and
expensive, it was not until the mid-90s that they really took off,
driven almost solely by video games and large multimedia applications.

In 1990, Sony and Philips went back to the drawing table, and then came
out with the CD-R, a record-once medium. Yet again, the first CD burners
were large, expensive, and bulky, but by the late 90s having a CD burner
was the new ‘in’.

The first few generations of CD media, designed by Taiyo Yuden (a
company who I respect, and buy all my archival quality media from),
actually kind of sucked; it wasn’t until around 2000 that companies
started producing very high end media.

CDs and DVDs store individual bits (encoded in various ways depending on
the media) with spots of reflective and non-reflective areas. This
method is called ‘pits and lands’, where pits ‘absorb’ light (ie, are
‘off’ bits) and lands ‘reflect’ light (ie, are ‘on’ bits).

With pressed media, the pressing method causes pits to reflect the
laser’s light away from the sensor, and the lands to reflect it back at
the sensor. With burned media, a high energy laser causes spots of
organic dye to go opaque and obscure the reflective surface for the
pits, leaving the organic dye for lands alone.

**Short history of the DVD**\
While burning was becoming popular in the late 90s, so was playing high
quality video on DVDs. Storing almost 7 times the data of a 700MB CD (or
almost 13 in the case of dual layer DVDs), allowed companies to store
massive amounts of data on one disc, leading to the movie industry to
drop VHS tapes and the video game industry to drop CDs.

In 1995, the first DVD specification was ratified by over a dozen
companies including Sony and Philips, as well as Thompson, Pioneer, and
Mitsubishi. By 2000, at least half the homes in the US and Japan had DVD
players.

So, obviously, the next step was to produce burnable DVDs. Two separate,
and incompatible, efforts took hold. The first one, Pioneer’s DVD-R
(pronounced ‘DVD dash R’) was released in 1997, using different data
storage methods than pressed DVDs (appearing to be more like CD-R than
DVD), a poor error correction scheme, and the ‘wobble’ laser tracking
system of DVD-R is inadequate for the job.

The second effort, lead by the DVD+RW Alliance (headed by Sony, Philips,
Mitsubishi, and Thompson) was released in 2002, as an alternative to the
poorly implemented DVD-R. DVD+R uses a superior ‘wobble’ laser tracking
system, a far better error correction method, and the media quality
itself is typically higher. (See the ‘Why DVD+R?’ section below for a
more technical explanation)

**Why archival media is hard to produce**\
Unlike pressed CDs/DVDs, ‘burnt’ CDs/DVDs can eventually ‘fade’, due to
five things that effect the quality of CD media: Sealing method,
reflective layer, organic dye makeup, where it was manufactured, and
*your* storage practices (please keep all media out of direct sunlight,
in a nice cool dry dark place, in acid-free plastic containers; this
will triple the lifetime of any media).

The silver and aluminum alloys used in virtually all blank CD/DVD media
has one major issue, requiring the manufacturer to lacquer a protective
seal over the entire disc: silver and aluminum oxidize when they hit
air, turning the normally reflective layer into silver or aluminum rust.
Some (very expensive) media uses gold instead which doesn’t oxidize,
~~however DVD media cannot use gold due to design issues~~ (not true
anymore, see update below). Today, only the cheapest of the cheap media
has severe issues with sealing practices (as such, avoid any media made
outside of Japan and Taiwan; especially avoid media made in India).

Assuming that the protective seal and reflective layer are manufactured
correctly, the next issue is the organic dye. The first organic dyes,
designed by Taiyo Yuden, were Cyanine-based and, under normal
conditions, had a shelf life of around ten years; simply, that was
simply unacceptable for archive discs. Taiyo Yuden, Mitsubishi
Chemicals, Mitsui Co., and Ciba Specialty Chemicals spent the next ten
years trying to produce the best organic dyes, eventually reaching
archive-quality CD media.

Taiyo Yuden produced ‘Super Cyanine’, a chemically stabilized version of
the original Cyanine dye designs, while TDK offers media that uses
‘metal-stabilized Cyanine’ dye, leading to similar shelf lives as Taiyo
Yuden’s media. Taiyo Yuden states their Super Cyanine dye is chemically
stable for at least 70 years, and TDK states their metal-stabilized
Cyanine is also stable for 70 years.

On the other hand, Mitsubishi went in a different direction and produced
what is called a Metal Azo dye, that they claim is stable for around 100
years. Azo dyes are chemically stable, however, the shelf life of media
using Azo dyes typically does not exceed that of Super Cyanine and
metal-stabilized Cyanine.

The third dye produced for CD media is called Phthalocyanine dye, with
the majority of such dyes produced by Mitsui and Ciba. Typically
marketed as more resistant to heat and UV radiation than Cyanine and
Azo, modern Cyanine and Azo dyes last just as long in extreme
conditions.

DVDs also use similar dyes, however manufacturers have intentionally
kept what dyes they use a secret (instead of a feature in their
marketing of the media), and all blank DVDs are intentionally the same
color (as different dyes on CDs make blanks different colors, however,
it is not indicative of what dye is used due to some manufacturers using
different colored silver alloys and non-reactive additives in the dye).

**Why Taiyo Yuden media, and how to buy in the US**\
The best discs in circulation tend to be Taiyo Yuden media. In Japan,
you find their media under the brand That’s, which are wholly owned by
Taiyo Yuden.

As of late 2009, Taiyo Yuden announced they were buying the JVC Advanced
Media brand, and making it a wholly owned and operated brand for TY
products. They did this to put Taiyo Yuden products on store shelves
worldwide. See update 4 at the bottom for a full explanation.

Simply put, I have never had problems with any kind of Taiyo Yuden
media. Ever. I have bought CDs and DVDs under a dozen different brands
(including non-Taiyo Yuden manufactured TDK and Verbatim), and the only
ones that have had a 100% success rate is Taiyo Yuden.

If you cannot find any company selling media under the Taiyo Yuden/JVC
Advanced Media brand, I suggest buying from the
[SuperMediaStore.com](http://www.dpbolvw.net/click-2150801-10740888?url=http://www.supermediastore.com/),
who offer a wide range of Taiyo Yuden [CD
media](http://www.kqzyfj.com/click-2150801-10740888?url=http://www.supermediastore.com/category/u/blank-recordable-cd-r-rw-disc-discs-media?brand=TAIYO+YUDEN),
[DVD-R
media](http://www.jdoqocy.com/click-2150801-10740888?url=http://www.supermediastore.com/category/u/blank-recordable-dvd-r-disc-discs-media?brand=TAIYO+YUDEN),
and [DVD+R
media](http://www.anrdoezrs.net/click-2150801-10740888?url=http://www.supermediastore.com/category/u/blank-recordable-dvd-plus-r-disc-discs-media?brand=TAIYO+YUDEN).
I tend to buy just from them, as they are the only company that
guarantees that their media is actually from Taiyo Yuden and not a fake
(see the above linked FAQ on information about fake Taiyo Yuden media).

## Why DVD+R?

This is the most technical section of the article. If you don’t
understand the basics of how CD/DVD media works, or find such technical
discussions boring, skip to the next section.

As I said earlier, DVD-R sucks for data preservation for three reasons:
inferior error correction, inferior ‘wobble’ tracking, and the fact its
data writing methods look like an un-needed halfway point between CD-R
and DVD+R. The wobble tracking I shall explain first, then the error
corrections method, then the specifics of ATIP/pre-pit/ADIP optimum
power settings.

For a CD/DVD burner to track where it is on the disc, it uses three
things: the ‘wobble’ of the data track (where it actually wobbles back
and forth instead of in a straight line) to tell where it is in the
track, the position of the track to tell where it is on the disc, and
some additional information on the disc to tell where the track
(singular, as CDs and DVDs only have one track, and it is written in a
concentric spiral) begins and ends.

This additional information on a CD-R is called the ATIP (Absolute Time
In Pregroove), which contains how long the track is, where it begins,
what the maximum and minimum writing speeds are, what formula dye it
uses, who actually made it, optimum power control settings, and error
correction data. The ATIP is stored as a frequency modulation in the
wobble itself.

However, since the wobble changes subtly to encode data, it is
impossible to use with the small size of tracks DVD requires, as
electric noise in the laser pickup and wobbles introduced by the
electric motor spinning the disc, these could easily be read as
frequency changes in the real track itself.

On DVD-R, they tried to solve the problem with something called
‘pre-pits’ where spikes in the amplitude of the wobble appear due to
pits fully out of phase with the rest of the track (ie, between two
spirals of the track, where there is no data). This can be viewed as a
simple improvement over CD-R as it makes it easier to track the wobble
(since the wobble is constant except for the easy to detect and remove
spikes).

Unfortunately, this method as one flaw: due to electric noise in the
laser pickup, it would be very easy to miss the pre-pit (or read one
that wasn’t actually there) if the disc were damaged or spun at fast
speeds. The time to read a pre-pit is 1T (roughly .0000000038th of a
second), which even for a computer can be easy to miss. DVD-R traded
hard to track frequency changes for hard to read wobble-encoded data.

On a DVD+R, however, they came up with a much better method. Instead of
changing the frequency of the wobble, or causing amplitude spikes in the
wobble, they use complete phase changes. Where CD-R’s and DVD-R’s
methods make you choose between either easy wobble tracking or easy ATIP
reading, DVD+R’s method makes it very easy to track the wobble, and also
very easy to encode data into the wobble. DVD+R’s method is called ADIP
(ADdress In Pre-groove), which uses a phase change method.

With ADIPs’ phase changes, the direction of the wobble changes and
continues on going in the exact opposite direction (ie,
counter-clockwise to clockwise, or the reverse). For example, if the
wobble was ‘going up’, the phase change causes it to instantly reverse
direction start ‘going down’ no matter where it in the wobble cycle. The
phase change is very easy to detect, and also continues for a set period
(in this case, one 32T section of the track, or 32 times longer than the
pre-pit method of DVD-R).

The state of the phase change (clockwise or counter-clockwise) encodes
the individual bits in each block In essence, with the phase change
method, not only do you have an easy way of tracking the wobble, but you
now have an easy way of reading wobble-encoded data.

As I mentioned earlier, this wobble-encoded data includes error
correction of wobble-encoded data itself. Error correction is the most
important part of media, because if it does not work, then you’ve lost
your data, even if there is nothing seriously wrong with the disc.

The DVD-R specification states that for every 192 bits, 64 of them are
not protected under any scheme, 24 of them are protected by 24 bits of
parity, and the last 56 bits are protected by another 24 bits of parity.
This weird (to put it mildly) scheme allows you to easily scramble or
lose 25% of the data that is required to read your disk! This
information is almost more important than the actual data burned on the
disc itself.

The DVD+R specification, however, states that for every 204 bits of
information, it is split into four blocks of 52 bits containing 1 sync
bit to prevent misreading because of phase changes, 31 bits of data, and
a 20 bit parity (that protects all 32 bits of data). The sync bit is
always the same value in all four blocks, and exists only to prevent
phase inversions.

Now, the third item on the list: how DVD+R discs burn better. As I said
earlier, ATIP/pre-pit/ADIP stores information about optimum power
control settings. This information is basically formulas stating how
much output power is needed, what the laser startup power should be, and
other pieces of information you require to properly burn a DVD.

Optimum power control output is dependent on three things: burning
speed, laser wavelength, and information given to the drive about the
media. DVD-R basically fails on all three accounts because DVD+R simply
includes far more information about the media in the ADIP data than
DVD-R does in it’s pre-pit data.

DVD+R includes four optimum profiles, one for four major burning speeds
(usually 2x, 4x, 6x, and 8x, though this can change as speeds increase).
Each of these profiles include optimum power output based on laser
wavelength, more precise laser power settings, and other additional
information. With this information, any DVD+R burner can far more
optimize it’s burning strategy to fit the media than it can with DVD-R,
consistently providing better burns.

For comparison, DVD-R includes one profile, optimum power output based
for that one profile only and uncalibrated towards what wavelength it is
for, less precise laser power settings, and no other additional
information. Typically, DVD-R burners have to already know how to burn a
certain piece of media (and include this information in their firmwares)
before they can properly burn to it. New media often is not properly
supported.

In addition to the optimum power control profiles, DVD+R also gives four
times more scratch space for the drive to calibrate the laser on; more
space can only improve the calibration quality. So, in short, DVD+R
media exists to simply produce better burns and protect your data
better.

## And finally, the end of the article…

Finally, after roughly three pages of technical discussion, we arrive at
the end of my dissertation on archival quality CD/DVD media. So, you’re
probably now wondering, in simple terms, what media do I recommend?

To begin with, I do not recommend CD-RW, DVD-RW, or DVD+RW media in any
form for permanent storage. This is mostly a no-brainer, but those discs
are meant to be able to be changed after burning, and they are simply
unsuitable for long-term archival storage. I also do not recommend DVD-R
media due to DVD+R’s superior error correction and burning control.

That said, I recommend Taiyo Yuden media across the board. Taiyo Yuden
currently manufactures [52x
CD-R](http://www.dpbolvw.net/click-2150801-10740888?url=http://www.supermediastore.com/category/u/blank-recordable-cd-r-rw-disc-discs-media?brand=TAIYO+YUDEN),
[16x
DVD-R](http://www.tkqlhce.com/click-2150801-10740888?url=http://www.supermediastore.com/category/u/blank-recordable-dvd-r-disc-discs-media?brand=TAIYO+YUDEN),
and [16x
DVD+R](http://www.jdoqocy.com/click-2150801-10740888?url=http://www.supermediastore.com/category/u/blank-recordable-dvd-plus-r-disc-discs-media?brand=TAIYO+YUDEN)
media in normal shiney silver, inkjet printable, and thermal printable
forms. Taiyo Yuden may be one of the most expensive (if not *the* most
expensive), but their media quality is unsurpassed. Taiyo Yuden
(currently) does not produce any dual layer media. Also, as I mentioned
earlier, I recommended buying from
[SuperMediaStore.com](http://www.tkqlhce.com/click-2150801-10740888?url=http://www.supermediastore.com/)
as they are the only online US distributor that guarantees that their
Taiyo Yuden media is certified as coming from Taiyo Yuden.

However, for those that absolutely require dual layer media, Verbatim
produces DVD-R DL and DVD+R DL, however, due to the fact DL media costs
over twice as much as two single layer discs, I recommend you only use
single layer unless you really, really need a single disc.

So, what am I using? Due to Taiyo Yuden’s superior media quality, and
DVD+R’s superior design, I use only Taiyo Yuden DVD+R media. I recommend
this media to everyone who wishes to keep their data for a long, long
time.

## Updates

**Update:** It seems MAM-A and Kodak actually has managed to make a gold
DVD, though no one else seems to be manufacturing them. However, MAM-A’s
gold archival media still doesn’t seem to exceed TY quality (although Mr
60,000 in the comments below puts TY second best to MAM-A). Due to the
extreme cost of gold archival media ($2+ a disc) with very little
increased protection (if any), I’ll still say TY media is better. I want
to see more independent tests on this before I change my recommendation.

In addition, I’d like to mention that Verbatim has been relabeling other
brands of disc as their own. If the box/spindle/cakebox the discs come
in don’t say they’re manufactured with Verbatim’s proprietary Azo dye
(sometimes called Advanced Azo, sometimes not, depending on the product)
then they aren’t Verbatim media at all and should be avoided as they may
not meet typical home archival standards.

**Update 2:** (Sept. 19th 2007) Its almost been a year since I first
wrote this article. My recommendations for media have not changed, my
recommendations for DVD burners have.

Plextor: I once owned a Plextor PX-716, and it was a great drive,
considered by many to be one of the best drives ever manufactured. At
one point I had recommended in this article that if you could find one
it was worth buying, but they are rare and slow compared to modern
Samsung drives..

Samsung: Samsung is currently producing two drives worth owning, the [\
Samsung
SH-S222AB](http://www.kqzyfj.com/click-2150801-10440897?url=http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16827151233&nm_mc=AFC-C8Junction&cm_mmc=AFC-C8Junction-_-CD/DVD+Burners+(RW+Drives)-_-SAMSUNG-_-27151233&cjsku=N82E16827151233%22)
(SATA) and the [Samsung
SH-S222A](http://www.anrdoezrs.net/click-2150801-10440897?url=http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16827151175&nm_mc=AFC-C8Junction&cm_mmc=AFC-C8Junction-_-CD/DVD+Burners+(RW+Drives)-_-SAMSUNG-_-27151175&cjsku=N82E16827151175)
(IDE). These drives have a large fanbase over at the CD Freaks forums,
and seem to be a good buy since Plextor is no longer in the loop.

**Update 3:** (July 26th 2009) Its been awhile since I updated this
article. Pioneer is no longer manufacturing drives worth using. Just buy
a Samsung drive like I link to above. I’m using two Samsung drives now
after my PX-716 finally died after years of service.

My recommendation on TY and Verbatim hasn’t changed, and I imagine it
will never change; DVD media will not change significantly from here on
out. Bluray in my opinion is not worth switching over to unless you’re
storing data that can be measured in terabytes.

When Bluray is worth switching over to, I’ll write a follow up article
to this one. High quality single layer media will have to drop below 50
cents a piece and Bluray burners will have to become ubiquitous (much
like DVD burners are now) before that happens. I’m thinking 2011 or
later.

**Update 4:** (August 3rd 2010) Taiyo Yuden has bought the JVC Media
brand and is now operating under the JVC Advanced Media brand. You can
now buy TY inside JVC boxes and get your usual TY quality. [This
site](http://opticalarchive.com/2009/10/22/ty-to-jvc-part-number-conversion/)
has the conversion of part numbers.

JVC has not bought Taiyo Yuden, and Taiyo Yuden is in full control of
this new venture. They merely bought they name so they can put TY
products on store shelves worldwide.

[SuperMediaStore.com](http://www.tkqlhce.com/click-2150801-10740888?url=http://www.supermediastore.com/)
is selling almost all JVC Advanced Media branded TY products in place of
the old TY branded ones.

**Update 5:** (September 27th 2011) A few people have asked about how
PIE/PIF scans work.

DVD-R and DVD+R both employ two stage error correction.

PIE (Parity Inner Error) just means error correction was used, PIF
(Parity Inner Failure) means the error was unrecoverable using the inner
ECC block but still may be recovered using the outer ECC block . On
tools that give avg/max/total, max PIE values above 140, or max PIF
values above 4\* means the disc needs to be replaced but the data most
likely isn’t corrupted yet\*\*.

For a burn to be considered still pristine you want max PIE below 20 and
max PIF 3 or lower.

Discs will NOT be pristine after 4 years, but there is a fall off of
PIF/PIE increasing after 6 months and doesn’t seem to start picking up
again until 5-10 years depending on storage environment.

Totals for PIF can be as high as 100k yet have a max of 20, and total
PIF can be as high as 1000 but have a max below 3. Max PIE is considered
mostly fatal above 280 and can reach as high as 1664, and max PIF can
reach as high as 208\*.

DVD+R generally will maintain lower values for both due to superior
error correction techniques.

## Protips

* Some tools and/or drives won’t list above 4 for PIF.
  * Some tools and/or drives also list PO (Parity Outer) uncorrectable
errors. This is for any read that has a max PIF above 4. This indicates
a mostly unrecoverable data corruption error, which would effect (if
I’ve done my math right) 36k of data (although that doesn’t mean the
whole 36k of data is corrupted, just that its corrupted inside of that
36k). This still does not indicate the disc is unreadable, some
obsessive ripping tools will try multiple reads in an effort to get a
valid read or different incorrect reads that can be merged into a valid
read.