Source: [Listless Ink](http://listlessink.wordpress.com/ "Listless Ink")

Birth of a Goddess, Madoka’s Path to Nirvana – A Study of Buddhism
==================================================================

[![akemi homura jyuru kaname madoka mahou shoujo madoka magica
yuri](https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/_c3hWUvy__P4/TbKh8WbiK5I/AAAAAAAAB48/WDSBX93Kuog/akemi_homura-jyuru-kaname_madoka-mahou_shoujo_madoka_magica.jpg "akemi homura jyuru kaname madoka mahou shoujo madoka magica yuri")](https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/_c3hWUvy__P4/TbKh8WbiK5I/AAAAAAAAB48/WDSBX93Kuog/akemi_homura-jyuru-kaname_madoka-mahou_shoujo_madoka_magica.jpg "akemi homura jyuru kaname madoka mahou shoujo madoka magica yuri")

In the much anticipated final two episodes of Puella Magica Madoka
Magica, the tragic timelines of the magical girls finally come to an
end. On Walpurgisnacht, Madoka contracts Kyubey, and wishes to, with her
own hands, erase all witches from existence before they are even born.
With the miracle, she becomes a goddess-like existence —a force of
nature outside our universe— who bends the known laws of the world
across all times and timelines.

The parallels to Buddhist teachings are fascinating. In addition to the
surface visual symbolisms and karmic language, the story embodies some
very core ideas of Buddhism.\

## Karma

**[![madoka magica sayaka
witch](https://lh4.googleusercontent.com/_c3hWUvy__P4/TbKh8U4YpJI/AAAAAAAAB5A/6PocXkWOjYU/s800/madoka-magica-sayaka-witch.jpg "madoka magica sayaka witch")](https://lh4.googleusercontent.com/_c3hWUvy__P4/TbKh8U4YpJI/AAAAAAAAB5A/6PocXkWOjYU/s800/madoka-magica-sayaka-witch.jpg "madoka magica sayaka witch")\
**

In Buddhism’s world view, life is driven by karma. In the truest sense
of the idea, karma is simply any action that has a consequence. It is
particularly interesting the language used in scriptures to describe
karma:

> *According to the seed that’s sown,*\
>  *So is the fruit you reap therefrom,*\
>  *Doer of good will gather good,*\
>  *Doer of evil, evil reaps,*\
>  *Down is the seed and thou shalt taste the fruit thereof.*
> 
> — Samyutta Nikāya (*Buddhist scripture*)

[![madoka magica sayaka grief seed karmic
seed](https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/_c3hWUvy__P4/TbKh8s9kYcI/AAAAAAAAB5E/kNCJkvM-0nk/s800/madoka-magica-sayaka-grief-seed.jpg "madoka magica sayaka grief seed karmic seed")](https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/_c3hWUvy__P4/TbKh8s9kYcI/AAAAAAAAB5E/kNCJkvM-0nk/s800/madoka-magica-sayaka-grief-seed.jpg "madoka magica sayaka grief seed karmic seed")

Of course, there is the sense that good seeds will bear good fruits, and
vice versa. This imagery of karmic seeds reminds of grief seeds in
Madoka. In fact, Kyubey has used karma specifically to describe magical
girls. When Madoka wishes for her miracle, Kyubey refers to the cycle of
hope and despair, magical girls and witches, as the law of karma.
However, bear in mind though that karma itself is an amoral\* concept,
much like incubators.

## Rebirth,****Sams****āra, and Suffering

[![madoka magica sayaka witch
karma](https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/_c3hWUvy__P4/TbKh8TEJIKI/AAAAAAAAB44/e39qLzIqE4Q/s800/madoka-magica-sayaka-witch-karma.jpg "madoka magica sayaka witch karma")](https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/_c3hWUvy__P4/TbKh8TEJIKI/AAAAAAAAB44/e39qLzIqE4Q/s800/madoka-magica-sayaka-witch-karma.jpg "madoka magica sayaka witch karma")

Embedded within this idea is a sense of inevitability. An action -or in
some cases, an idea- will grow to affect all futures in a never ending
cycle of karma: action leads to consequence leads to action leads to
consequence. Desire driven magical girls will eventually become witches.
There seems to be no escape from cause and effect.

[![akemi homura kaname madoka keito kazamatuli mahou shoujo madoka
magica wallpaper
yuri](https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/_c3hWUvy__P4/TbKkam7VelI/AAAAAAAAB5Y/SpJq8vIjzKY/s800/akemi_homura-kaname_madoka-keito_%28kazamatuli%29-mahou_shoujo_madoka_magica-wallpaper-yuri.jpg "akemi homura kaname madoka keito kazamatuli mahou shoujo madoka magica wallpaper yuri")](https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/_c3hWUvy__P4/TbKkam7VelI/AAAAAAAAB5Y/SpJq8vIjzKY/s800/akemi_homura-kaname_madoka-keito_%28kazamatuli%29-mahou_shoujo_madoka_magica-wallpaper-yuri.jpg "akemi homura kaname madoka keito kazamatuli mahou shoujo madoka magica wallpaper yuri")

However, the wonderful complexities of Buddhism also integrates free
will into this seemingly fatalistic world view:

> _If anyone says that a man or woman must reap in this life according to his present deeds, in that case there is no religious life, nor is an opportunity afforded for the entire extinction of sorrow. But if anyone says that what a man or woman reaps in this and future lives accords with his or her deeds present and past, in that case there is a religious life, and an opportunity is afforded for the entire extinction of a sorrow._ \
> 
> — Anguttara Nikaya (*Buddhist scripture*)

[![akemi homura mahou shoujo madoka magica arika antoinetteblue time
paradox
rebirth](https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/_c3hWUvy__P4/TbKjo_qAZfI/AAAAAAAAB5Q/JOcvgXLxAWk/s800/akermi-homura-mahou-shoujo-madoka-magica-arika-antoinetteblue-time-paradox-rebirth.jpg "akemi homura mahou shoujo madoka magica arika antoinetteblue time paradox rebirth")](https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/_c3hWUvy__P4/TbKjo_qAZfI/AAAAAAAAB5Q/JOcvgXLxAWk/s800/akermi-homura-mahou-shoujo-madoka-magica-arika-antoinetteblue-time-paradox-rebirth.jpg "akemi homura mahou shoujo madoka magica arika antoinetteblue time paradox rebirth")

The importance of rebirth to the Buddhist world view is clear. In
Buddhist doctrine, rebirth is closely tied to Samsāra, which describes
the cycle of endless suffering (dukkha), perpetual wandering, and
transmigration. Because of desires and dissatisfaction, all sentient
beings continuously go through conception, death, and rebirth. We, or
rather our consciousness, are forever trapped in this wheel until the
accumulation of our karma lives out its consequences. Sound familiar?

## Enlightenment

**[![madoka magica akemi homura madoka timelines rebirth
yuri](https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/_c3hWUvy__P4/TbK0wSb67PI/AAAAAAAAB6M/9NtcQyKp1lg/s800/madoka-magica-akemi-homura-madoka-timelines-rebirth-yuri.jpg "madoka magica akemi homura madoka timelines rebirth yuri")](https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/_c3hWUvy__P4/TbK0wSb67PI/AAAAAAAAB6M/9NtcQyKp1lg/s800/madoka-magica-akemi-homura-madoka-timelines-rebirth-yuri.jpg "madoka magica akemi homura madoka timelines rebirth yuri")\
**

Further, an ignorance concerning suffering, its origins, and its
cessation leads to volitional actions (karma), which gives rise to
consciousness and cognitive awareness. It is this consciousness that
drives rebirths. Only by enlightenment can one break the cycles and
enter nirvana. Here is the interesting tie to Madoka. The difference
between the last timeline and all previous ones is that Homura reveals
the truth about “past” timelines. This is quite an enlightening
experience for Madoka indeed, and one about her own “Samsāra”
nonetheless. It seems only natural that Madoka would later reach
nirvana.

[![madoka magica tomoe mami osamu
mekarauroko\_6](https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/_c3hWUvy__P4/TbKk6AtvvaI/AAAAAAAAB5c/HQS4m0yrxIc/mahou_shoujo_madoka_magica-osamu_%28mekarauroko_6%29-tomoe_mami.jpg "madoka magica tomoe mami osamu mekarauroko_6")](https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/_c3hWUvy__P4/TbKk6AtvvaI/AAAAAAAAB5c/HQS4m0yrxIc/mahou_shoujo_madoka_magica-osamu_%28mekarauroko_6%29-tomoe_mami.jpg "madoka magica tomoe mami osamu mekarauroko_6")

Part of enlightenment is also embodying non-duality and understanding
the fallacy of dual natures. In a sense, this is realized by Madoka
after she changes karmic laws. The duality of hope and despair, magical
girls and witches no longer exists. As a force of nature outside karmic
laws, she has reached nirvana and full understanding of the nondual
views of self and world.

## Nirvana

[![akemi homura kaname madoka yuri mahou shoujo
akasaka](https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/_c3hWUvy__P4/TbKpAhcAqoI/AAAAAAAAB5k/lTU631J-iI0/akemi-homura-kaname-madoka-yuri-mahou-shoujo-akasaka.jpg "akemi homura kaname madoka yuri mahou shoujo akasaka")](https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/_c3hWUvy__P4/TbKpAhcAqoI/AAAAAAAAB5k/lTU631J-iI0/akemi-homura-kaname-madoka-yuri-mahou-shoujo-akasaka.jpg "akemi homura kaname madoka yuri mahou shoujo akasaka")

Nirvana is the end state of having broken free from Samsāra. The mind is
without attachments, identity, and boundaries. Naturally, without any of
those, the liberated one has no more desires, and thus no more
sufferings, and consequently, produces no new karma. Moreover, even
though nirvana describes the cessation of the stream of consciousness
that ties together rebirths, it is also a higher level of awareness. It
is nothingness, the end of the world. Indeed, this seems to describe
Madoka’s final goddess presence upon becoming the embodiment of hope.

[![etou kaname madoka mahou shoujo
magic](https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/_c3hWUvy__P4/TbK3v9Y4lmI/AAAAAAAAB6g/XOxsxsTDfFs/etou-kaname_madoka-mahou_shoujo_madoka_magica.jpg "etou kaname madoka mahou shoujo magic")](https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/_c3hWUvy__P4/TbK3v9Y4lmI/AAAAAAAAB6g/XOxsxsTDfFs/etou-kaname_madoka-mahou_shoujo_madoka_magica.jpg "etou kaname madoka mahou shoujo magic")

To dig into Madoka’s spiritual ascension even deeper, let us examine the
definition of nirvana. Nir-vana. Nir means to leave, be without, or be
free of. Vana defines several natures, including the path of rebirth,
forest, weaving, and stench. Therefore, nirvana is the state of being
away from the path of rebirth permanently, as Madoka’s final change is
the end of her timeline.

[![madoka magica magi
walpurgisnacht](https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/_c3hWUvy__P4/TbKwH1xX9OI/AAAAAAAAB54/CGuJeucIeoA/s800/madoka-magica-magi-walpurgisnacht.jpg "madoka magica magi walpurgisnacht")](https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/_c3hWUvy__P4/TbKwH1xX9OI/AAAAAAAAB54/CGuJeucIeoA/s800/madoka-magica-magi-walpurgisnacht.jpg "madoka magica magi walpurgisnacht")

Nirvana is also often symbolized by the the extinguishing of the dense
forests of three fires of lust, malice, and delusion.

[![madoka magica karmic ties knots lines tangled
timelines](https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/_c3hWUvy__P4/TbKwH5H0hnI/AAAAAAAAB50/xarsg9Z0ys4/s800/madoka-magica-karmic-ties-knots-lines-tangled-timelines.jpg "madoka magica karmic ties knots lines tangled timelines")](https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/_c3hWUvy__P4/TbKwH5H0hnI/AAAAAAAAB50/xarsg9Z0ys4/s800/madoka-magica-karmic-ties-knots-lines-tangled-timelines.jpg "madoka magica karmic ties knots lines tangled timelines")

It is being free from the knot of cause and effect, of the stench of
karma.

## Six Realms

Let us stretch the parallels one step further. Before nirvana, all
consciousness are born, die, and reborn as beings in the six domains of
the Desire realm: God realm, Asura realm, Human realm, Animal realm,
Preta realm, and Hell realm. This is the wheel of life, the place where
Samsāra occurs.

[![Kyubey karan koron madoka
magica](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/_c3hWUvy__P4/TbLDZdVvsYI/AAAAAAAAB60/Xu2OTzYc7qw/s800/Kyubey-karan-koron-madoka-magica.jpg "Kyubey karan koron madoka magica")](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/_c3hWUvy__P4/TbLDZdVvsYI/AAAAAAAAB60/Xu2OTzYc7qw/s800/Kyubey-karan-koron-madoka-magica.jpg "Kyubey karan koron madoka magica")

It is surprisingly neat how the characters in Madoka Magica fit into
these realms. For example, the deva that occupy the blissful God realm
are way more powerful than beings in all other realms. Among their
powers include a sort of telepathy and illusion construction. Moreover,
one particular class of deva are passionless and sexless. Indeed, this
seems a bit reminiscent of Kyubey.

[![madoka magica miki sayaka maple
cyakapon](https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/_c3hWUvy__P4/TbLDZvS8QCI/AAAAAAAAB64/Fo4Ur8jguPM/s800/madoka-magica-miki-sayaka-maple-cyakapon.jpg "madoka magica miki sayaka maple cyakapon")](https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/_c3hWUvy__P4/TbLDZvS8QCI/AAAAAAAAB64/Fo4Ur8jguPM/s800/madoka-magica-miki-sayaka-maple-cyakapon.jpg "madoka magica miki sayaka maple cyakapon")

In assuming magical girls to be the demigods that occupy Asura, we would
find equally convincing parallels. The Asura are beings more powerful
than humans. They are often characterized by jealousy and desire. The
Asura are reborn into this realm because of good intentions that had bad
results. This very aptly describes Sayaka and other magical girls.

[![madoka magica kaname kisaragi kiriha
pink](https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/_c3hWUvy__P4/TbLDZm3AvjI/AAAAAAAAB68/E9EIsvYmg6c/madoka-magica-kaname-kisaragi-kiriha-pink.jpg "madoka magica kaname kisaragi kiriha pink")](https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/_c3hWUvy__P4/TbLDZm3AvjI/AAAAAAAAB68/E9EIsvYmg6c/madoka-magica-kaname-kisaragi-kiriha-pink.jpg "madoka magica kaname kisaragi kiriha pink")

Perhaps the most interesting character of this exercise would be Madoka
of the Human realm. Of all the domains, a rebirth in the Human realm has
the highest potential of reaching enlightenment. Indeed, this is the
samsaric realm in which humans can directly achieve nirvana either in a
future rebirth or even this present, as Madoka has done.

## Bodhisattva

*(Added 4/25/11 — Drawn mostly from 2DT’s comment and my reply below)*

Bodhisattva are enlightenment-beings on the path to Buddhahood and
nirvana that have either reached enlightenment or are destined for
enlightenment. They stay within the universe because of a desire to save
people.

Quoted from my [comment
reply](http://listlessink.wordpress.com/2011/04/23/birth-of-a-goddess-madokas-path-to-nirvana-a-study-of-buddhism/#comment-17611 "Yi's comment")
below:

*Madoka most resembles a Bodhisattva right after her wish was granted. I
believe that is when she becomes an enlightenment-being, someone who has
been enlightened or is bound for enlightenment. As she flies around to
all the magical girls and purify their gems, she is like the
Bodhisattva. She will soon escape from Samsara but is staying around for
just for a few more moments to save people.*

*I would argue further that when she finally disappear — when she sheds
any form — and becomes simply a force of nature, that’s the Madoka
version of attaining nirvana, and reaching Buddhahood.*

*—*Yi

2DT points suggests lovely the Bodhisattva parallels in a
[comment](http://listlessink.wordpress.com/2011/04/23/birth-of-a-goddess-madokas-path-to-nirvana-a-study-of-buddhism/#comment-17539 "2DT's comment")
below:

*A certain story goes that a girl was about to reach nirvana and leave
the cycle of existence. But just short of the last step, she looked back
and saw the suffering of mankind, and it moved her so deeply that she
decided to postpone enlightenment until she freed everyone on earth. She
became Kannon, the first bodhisattva and the Goddess of Mercy.*

*There are other bodhisattvas as well. One, Maitreya, is only a
prophecy: He’s supposed to teach the perfected dharma in a future age.
But his enlightenment transcends linear time and reverberates even here,
in the past.*

*—*2DT (*[2D-Teleidoscope](http://2dteleidoscope.wordpress.com/ "2DT")*)

## Other Visual Symbolisms

**[![madoka magica first
witch](https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/_c3hWUvy__P4/TbK0wXqadDI/AAAAAAAAB6Q/ujAY47YT4sc/s800/madoka-magica-first-witch.jpg "madoka magica first witch")](https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/_c3hWUvy__P4/TbK0wXqadDI/AAAAAAAAB6Q/ujAY47YT4sc/s800/madoka-magica-first-witch.jpg "madoka magica first witch")\
**

Buddhism pervades Madoka Magica not just in its themes and concepts, but
in the visual symbolisms as well. There is a clear parallel between
seeds and gems. The karmic seeds and the fruition of consequences
(vipāka) are oft visually represented as grief seeds and the organic
components of witches.

[![madoka magica grief seed snuff out flame
nirvana](https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/_c3hWUvy__P4/TbK0wvpxFnI/AAAAAAAAB6U/fLHsKlySLqk/s800/madoka-magica-grief-seed-snuff-out-nirvana.jpg "madoka magica grief seed snuff out flame nirvana")](https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/_c3hWUvy__P4/TbK0wvpxFnI/AAAAAAAAB6U/fLHsKlySLqk/s800/madoka-magica-grief-seed-snuff-out-nirvana.jpg "madoka magica grief seed snuff out flame nirvana")

Another interesting visual is the use of dissipating flames. As
explained earlier, one part of the definition of nirvana (also the
ending of suffering) is the extinguishing of the flames ignorance. In
fact, nirvana literally means snuffed out. When Madoka ascends to her
new form, she “snuffs out” the various grief seeds.

[![madoka magica akemi homura
elephant](https://lh4.googleusercontent.com/_c3hWUvy__P4/TbK0wKKhf2I/AAAAAAAAB6I/chDCB9ug2Ko/s800/madoka-magica-akemi-homura-elephant-buddha.jpg "madoka magica akemi homura elephant")](https://lh4.googleusercontent.com/_c3hWUvy__P4/TbK0wKKhf2I/AAAAAAAAB6I/chDCB9ug2Ko/s800/madoka-magica-akemi-homura-elephant-buddha.jpg "madoka magica akemi homura elephant")

Perhaps the most outstanding symbol for me is the white elephant. When
Walpurgisnacht first arrives, Homura —the girl who “births” the Madoka
in this current timeline— is first greeted by an elephant. The Buddha,
the founder of Buddhism, was born for the last time as Siddhartha.
Legend says that on the night Siddhartha was conceived, his mother
dreamt of an elephant as well.

And, like the Buddha, Madoka eventually reaches nirvana, a deathless
existence outside of karmic laws.

[![akemi homura kaname madoka kyuubee mahou shoujo miki sayaka pico
sakura kyouko tomoe
mami](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/_c3hWUvy__P4/TbKsjoHq3mI/AAAAAAAAB5s/aVCeRkDM4Js/s800/akemi_homura-kaname_madoka-kyuubee-mahou_shoujo_madoka_magica-miki_sayaka-pico_%28artist%29-sakura_kyouko-tomoe_mami.jpg "akemi homura kaname madoka kyuubee mahou shoujo miki sayaka pico sakura kyouko tomoe mami")](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/_c3hWUvy__P4/TbKsjoHq3mI/AAAAAAAAB5s/aVCeRkDM4Js/s800/akemi_homura-kaname_madoka-kyuubee-mahou_shoujo_madoka_magica-miki_sayaka-pico_%28artist%29-sakura_kyouko-tomoe_mami.jpg "akemi homura kaname madoka kyuubee mahou shoujo miki sayaka pico sakura kyouko tomoe mami")

Goddess, I love this anime!

## Side notes

-   Buddhist principles mostly drawn from ideas accepted by both major
    branches, Theravada and Mahayana. The post focuses more on Buddhist
    world views and philosophies instead of the religion’s theistic
    aspects. In fact, Buddhism is often seen as a nontheistic religion
    because of its rejection of a prime mover.
-   Karma, nirvana, suffering, and other concepts simplified because
    interpretations of these terms can go on for pages. For example, I
    called karma “amoral” although it does deal with the moral sphere,
    because of various complicating reasons. I go into further detail in
    a [comment
    below](http://listlessink.wordpress.com/2011/04/23/birth-of-a-goddess-madokas-path-to-nirvana-a-study-of-buddhism/#comment-17821 "Karma Madoka Buddhism").
-   Goddess in the Buddhist sense has a much different meaning from that
    of monotheistic and even polytheistic religions. The use of the term
    in this post is mostly rhetorical.
-   **Terms and ideas in this post are from a Buddhist perspective.
    Other religions, most notably Hinduism, may have similar ideas, but
    are often quite different in some key points.**
-   There are plenty of references to other religion as well, including
    a painting of Michaelangelo’s Creation of Adam. I do believe though
    that the nontheistic take on Madoka’s final change (her existence
    outside the timelines is explained as a fundamental part of the new
    universe) is more in line with the Buddhist world view. Of course,
    that is not to say the story does not parallel the doctrines of
    other religions. After all, it is surprising how similar many
    religions are to each other.
-   It is fun to go back and read [past
    speculations](http://listlessink.wordpress.com/2011/03/11/reversing-the-irreversible-in-puella-magi-madoka-magica-future-predictions-using-physics/ "Reversing the Irreversible in Puella Magi Madoka Magica – Future Predictions Using Physics")
    on this series.
-   Comments below note some interesting counterpoints that I address.
-   Ryan A. gives a fascinating, well written quick read on [Gödel’s
    incompleteness
    theorems](http://listlessink.wordpress.com/2011/04/23/birth-of-a-goddess-madokas-path-to-nirvana-a-study-of-buddhism/#comment-17669 "Ryan A.'s comment").

-   I cried so hard at the end…

About Yi
--------

![image](http://1.gravatar.com/avatar/1a7bc5c9184a7a63db2669b4d419cd64?s=60&d=identicon)

''lol...you're either sleeping or eating'' ''oh and watching anime''
''and indulge in fashion.'' ... Ahh the busy life\~

[View all posts by Yi
→](http://listlessink.wordpress.com/author/listlessink/)

Source
------

Posted on April 23, 2011 at [Listless Ink](http://listlessink.wordpress.com/2011/04/23/birth-of-a-goddess-madokas-path-to-nirvana-a-study-of-buddhism/ "12:28 pm") by [Yi](http://listlessink.wordpress.com/author/listlessink/ "View all posts by Yi")