A basic guide to the world of Gensokyo. Pulled from <http://wakaba.c3.cx/w/gensokyo>.

The Illusory Land of Gensokyo
=============================

Gensokyo (幻想郷), meaning "Land of Illusion" or perhaps "Home of
Illusion", is the fictional setting for the [Touhou
Project](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Touhou_Project) series of games,
created nearly single-handedly by [ZUN of Team Shanghai
Alice](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Team_Shanghai_Alice). These games
have been experiencing a huge surge of popularity among Japanese otaku
for a period of several years at the time of this article's writing (at
the border of the years 2009 and 2010), as well as in the west.

The reason for their popularity is two-fold. The games themselves are a
series of 2D shoot-em-up games, with extremely skill-based gameplay and
intricate design that appeals strongly to fans of the genre. However,
this does not account for the immense popularity, as such games are a
small niche at best. The real mass appeal of the games are their setting
and characters, as well as their music, which have brought them a fan
scene larger than has ever been seen for a single anime or game series.

As a result, there are immense amounts of fan-produced material surround
the core series of games - manga, arrangements of the music, spin-off
games, and even animated works. However, due to the huge amount of
characters the games have introduced, and the lack of an easily
accessible core work to gain familiarity with the world - many would
find it quite impossible to actually complete any of the games to read
the story they present, and even if they could the translations that
exist for the games are not of very high quality - it is easy to find it
all too bewildering to know where to start.

This article is an attempt to write some kind of summary of the setting
and characters of the land of Gensokyo, to serve as a base for further
exploration. It can not claim to be in any way comprehensive, as the
world is just too large and fragmented, but it should hopefully be
enough to get one started.

It should also be noted that this text will make no attempt whatsoever
to avoid story spoilers. It is better to approach the world of Gensokyo
without worrying about such trivial matters, and just to discover things
as you find them. Plots and storylines are not very important in this
world, characters and interactions are. It is also better to not dwell
too deeply on such mysteries as why almost every single character in
Gensokyo is a cute girl.

Also, this text mostly only deals with the later series of games, on the
Windows platform, and not the earlier five games on the PC-98 platform.
Their story and setting are not quite consistent with the later games,
and is largely ignored in the later storylines.

All names are given in western order. Many other places on the net may
give them in the opposite, Japanese, order. "Reimu Hakurei" is the
western order, while the Japanese order would be "Hakurei Reimu".
Foreign names, like "Alice Margatroid", are always used in western
order, here and elsewhere.

Table of Contents
-----------------

-   [Gensokyo](#gensokyo)
-   [Places and people](#places)
    -   [The Hakurei Shrine](#hakurei)
    -   [The Magic Forest](#forest)
    -   [The Scarlet Devil Mansion](#mansion)
    -   [Mayohiga](#mayohiga)
    -   [Hakugyokurou](#hakugyokurou)
    -   [The Human Village](#village)
    -   [Eientei](#eientei)
    -   [The River Sanzu](#sanzu)
    -   [Youkai Mountain](#mountain)
    -   [The Moriya Shrine](#moriya)
    -   [Heaven](#heaven)
    -   [Hell](#hell)
    -   [The Ancient City](#city)
    -   [The Palace of Earth Spirits](#palace)
    -   [The Treasure Ship](#ship)

-   [Youkai and creatures of the fields and forests](#fields)
    -   [Fairies](#fairies)
    -   [The seasons](#seasons)
    -   [The Baquartet](#baquartet)
    -   [The Poltergeist Mansion](#poltergeist)
    -   [Dolls](#dolls)
    -   [Underground](#underground)
    -   [The sky](#sky)

-   [Incidents](#incidents)
    -   [The Embodiment of Scarlet Devil](#koumakyou)
    -   [Perfect Cherry Blossom](#youyoumu)
    -   [Immaterial and Missing Power](#suimusou)
    -   [Imperishable Night](#eiyashou)
    -   [Phantasmagoria of Flower View](#kaeizuka)
    -   [Mountain of Faith](#fuujinroku)
    -   [Scarlet Weather Rhapsody](#hisouten)
    -   [Subterranean Animism](#chireiden)
    -   [Undefined Fantastic Object](#seirensen)
    -   [Touhou Hisoutensoku](#hisoutensoku)

Gensokyo
--------

Gensokyo itself was once a desolate region, somewhere deep in the inland
mountains of Japan. [Youkai](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Y%C5%8Dkai)
dwelled there, as they did in all distant and uninhabited regions.
Youkai are the monsters of Japanese folklore, and exist in a large
variety of forms, and with many different origins and motivations. They
are not necessarily evil, but often dangerous. Many have a taste for
humans, and will attack and eat them.

People avoided Gensokyo because of its youkai. A few humans that were
strong and brave enough would attempt to go there to defeat the youkai,
and they eventually settled there, living in conflict with the youkai.

As human civilization progressed, people turned away from superstitious
beliefs, and there was no longer a place for youkai in this new world.
In 1885, it was decided to seal Gensokyo off from the surrounding world.
Human sages created the Great Hakurei Border, sealing the youkai and
humans of Gensokyo alike inside their own realm.

Cut off from contact with the outside world, Gensokyo continued to exist
largely as it was at the time of the sealing. The arrangement was
mutually beneficial to both the youkai inside it, who would have found
the modern outside world too harshly skeptical, and those outside, and
the border is maintained by both the humans and youkai inside.

The seal was never perfect, however, and the outside world continues to
affect Gensokyo in various ways. People sometimes manage to make it
through the border into Gensokyo, and the youkai inside sometimes travel
outside it, sometimes to hunt humans, or for other purposes. Both things
and ideas from the outside world make it into Gensokyo, either because
they are brought there, or because things that are forgotten in the
outside world have a tendency to appear in Gensokyo. The illusionary and
magical nature of the world inside the border means they never quite
work the same there as they once did.

Places and people
-----------------

Having presented the land itself, we now move on to the places of
interest in it, and the people who live in those places. These are
presented roughly in the order of appearance in the games.

### The Hakurei Shrine

The Hakurei Shrine sits at the eastern border between Gensokyo and the
outside world. It exists at the same time in both places, or perhaps in
neither. It is possible to travel between Gensokyo and the outside world
through it, but how exactly this happens is unclear. It is the duty of
the shrine maidens of the Hakurei shrine to protect Gensokyo and the
Great Hakurei Border.

*Reimu Hakurei* is the current shrine maiden of the Hakurei Shrine. As
such, she inherits considerable spiritual power, but even among the
Hakurei shrine maidens she is exceptionally powerful. Her natural talent
has left her quite lazy, and she seems to show little regard for the
important position she holds. She treats everyone, humans and youkai
alike, with the same amount of indifference. She spends her days
cleaning the shrine and drinking tea, and worrying about the lack of
donations to the shrine.

The lack of donations is largely because the shrine is thought of as a
den of youkai, which is largely true - the shrine is perhaps more
popular with the youkai than with the humans. It is a safe ground, as
youkai will not make trouble around Reimu, but humans are nevertheless
mostly too spooked to come and worship.

Gensokyo has a tendency for *incidents*, events that threaten the status
quo of the land. Youkai and others tend to execute their own schemes
with little regard for others, and it is at these times that Reimu
finally gets to do what she is good at, which is to find who is
responsible and force them to listen to reason. It is mostly at these
times that Reimu's laziness finally evaporates and she gladly goes into
action.

Lately, other creatures have been spotted staying at the Hakurei Shrine.
*Suika Ibuki* is an [oni](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oni_(folklore))
who has taken up residence in Gensokyo, despite the fact that Gensokyo
is not supposed to have any oni in it. The oni are very powerful ogres
in Japanese folklore, but they left Gensokyo on their own long before
the Great Hakurei Border was created, because humans would no longer
accept them. Oni love to fight and drink, and Suika would very much like
to bring the oni back to Gensokyo.

Another person who you'd mostly see at the Hakurei Shrine is *Marisa
Kirisame*, who we will get to next.

### The Magic Forest

The Magic Forest is a dark and ominous forest, avoided by both humans
and youkai. It is damp and full of mushrooms. The air is thick with
spores and not a good idea to breathe in.

Nevertheless, some live there. It is a good place to be alone. One of
them is *Marisa Kirisame*, a human witch (an "ordinary magician" in her
own words). Marisa is a long-time friend of Reimu, and spends a lot of
time at the shrine instead of in her home in the forest. At her home,
she runs a supposed magic store, but few people know about it and even
fewer could find it even if they wanted to. She mostly spends her time
at home experimenting with magic. She uses plenty of mushrooms from the
forest for their magical properties. She prefers flashy and destructive
magic, which only really finds use for fireworks, and for exterminating
youkai. Because of this, and because she spends so much time around the
shrine, she also often ends up going out to resolve Gensokyo's
incidents.

She is extremely irresponsible and easy-going. She resolves incidents
mostly for fun, and because she gets to blow things up. She completely
lacks any respect for the property of others, and tends to steal
anything that catches her fancy (however, she herself would claim she's
just borrowing). Her house is full of objects and books she's dragged
there and forgotten about. She also tends to steal her magical
incantations from others. Her one most prized possession is her
mini-hakkero, or eight trigram elemental reactor, a small magical item
of immense power she uses for her most destructive spells.

Unlike Reimu, she has actually worked hard to gain her skills.

*Alice Margatroid* is another inhabitant of the magic forest. She is
also a magic user, but not human. She may once have been, but a powerful
enough magician can turn themselves into a youkai, and that is what
Alice is.

She is a doll-maker, and does most of her magic through her dolls. She
might be powerful, but she'd rather surrender a fight on her own terms
than fight with all her strength, because she is afraid of finding out
what the limits of her power are.

Sometimes she'll fight Marisa, sometimes she'll team up with her. It's
complicated.

### The Scarlet Devil Mansion

The Scarlet Devil Mansion is a large European-style mansion which sits
on the shore of a lake. It is quite gaudily decorated in red, and looks
quite out-of-place. It seems to have been moved there from the outside
world for reasons that are not quite clear. It may just be an illusion
of a building that once existed in the outside world.

*Remilia Scarlet* is the mistress of the house. She is a vampire, born
in 1503, and thus still quite young for a vampire, or compared to the
youkai who inhabit Gensokyo. She is very selfish, childish and haughty.
As a vampire she is sensitive to sunlight and running water, so she
mostly moves around at night. She likes to throw parties at the mansion.

*Flandre Scarlet* is Remilia's younger sister, born in 1508. Unlike her
sister, she seems to be incapable of showing any restraints with her
powers of destruction, and is quite insane, so she is usually kept in
the basement of the mansion. She herself does not seem to mind this
much.

*Sakuya Izayoi* is the head maid of the Scarlet Devil Mansion. She can
control time and space, and uses this to expand the inside of the
mansion, and to better peform her duties as a maid. She is the only
human resident.

*Patchouli Knowledge* is a magician who is an old friend of Remilia. She
lives at the mansion, and works as a librarian and tutor. She suffers
from asthma, which limits her power as a magician because she can not
properly recite her incantations. Her library is full of very rare
magical books, and even books from the outside world. These books are
highly sought after by Marisa, who is always looking for new magic to
experiment with, so they tend to be stolen quite often. Nevertheless,
Patchouli and Marisa seem to get along at times. It's complicated.

*Hong Meiling* is the gatekeeper of the Scarlet Devil Mansion. She seems
quite human, but is a youkai. She does not have many special abilities,
and relies on martial arts to fight and defend the gate. She is quite
social and friendly to anyone who is not trying to break into the
mansion. She also tends to sleep on the job.

*Koakuma* is just an imp who was at some point summoned to the Scarlet
Devil Mansion. She helps Patchouli with the library work.

### Mayohiga

Mayohiga (or in more modern spelling, "Mayoiga") is a village right on
the Great Hakurei Border. Approaching it is difficult because the border
will try to repel anybody who approaches and steer them away, but it is
possible to reach it with enough determination.

It is not really known if *Yukari Yakumo* lives in Mayohiga, but that is
the best guess anyone has. Yukari is an old and powerful youkai, who has
power over borders. As such, she has taken on the role of the protector
of the Great Hakurei Border, and Gensokyo in general. She can open gaps
through which she can move wherever she pleases, including to the
outside world.

She is untrustworthy, scheming and fickle. Because they share the duty
of protecting the Great Hakurei Border, she has always had a close
relationship with the people of the Hakurei shrine. She is quite fond of
Reimu, who in return finds her infuriatingly suspicious, but
nevertheless relies on her as an ally. It's complicated.

She hibernates in winter, and sleeps most of the day even in summer.

Yukari keeps a familiar, *Ran Yakumo*, a nine-tailed fox spirit. Ran
does all the housework for her, and any other work she can not be
bothered to do herself. She is another in the long line of faithful and
overworked servants for the selfish and lazy youkai of Gensokyo.

So great is Yukari's power that Ran has enough left over to keep her own
familiar, *Chen*. Chen is a two-tailed cat spirit. She is not very
powerful or clever on her own, but she tries her best and Ran takes care
of her with motherly affection.

The three of them live as a family in a house somewhere in Gensokyo. It
may, as stated earlier, be in Mayohiga, but Yukari does not let people
know so easily.

### Hakugyokurou

The Hakugyokurou is a large mansion that resides in the netherworld,
where ghosts and spirits dwell while waiting to be reincarnated or
enlightened. It is perhaps not strictly part of Gensokyo, as it is
separated by another border, but this border is not at all as strong as
the Great Hakurei Border, and tends to often get bypassed.

There lives *Yuyuko Saigyouji*, the ghost princess who rules over the
netherworld. She has been a ghost for over a thousand years, an
exceptionally long time. She is whimsical, absent-minded and lazy. She
also seems to be quite gluttonous. She does not remember anything about
when she was alive, nor what she had for lunch. She is an old friend of
Yukari Yakumo.

*Youmu Konpaku* is her gardener and guardian. She is half human and half
ghost. Her ghost half is separate from herself, and manifests as a white
phantom floating besides her. She is a swordsman in training, and is
earnest if somewhat naïve. In practice, she does Yuyuko's housework and
errands, while Yuyuko teases her mercilessly.

### The Human Village

The human village is the largest human settlement in Gensokyo. It is a
place where humans can live fairly safely. Youkai do visit the village,
to shop and to party at night, but it is understood that they behave
well while there. The existence of the human village is important to the
youkai, and the wiser and older youkai give it protection.

Another person who protects the village is *Keine Kamishirasawa*, a
half-human half-hakutaku. A hakutaku is a wise horned youkai that are
generally appear to give advice to kings. Keine is a sort of
were-hakutaku, and turns into one during a full moon. Her powers are
control over history, which she can use to hide the human village from
attackers by making it as if it had never existed. For her day job she
runs a school for the children.

*Akyuu of Hieda* is the ninth reincarnation of the "Child of Miare", who
can remember everything she sees and anything her previous
reincarnations have seen. She is chronicling the history of Gensokyo.

Marisa's parents also live in the human village, but she seems to not be
in contact with them any more. They run a store where *Rinnosuke
Morichika* used to work. He - yes, "he", for he is one of the very rare
men to have a prominent role - later decided to set out on his own, and
started up a store named Kourindou outside the human village, near the
magic forest. He sells items from the outside world, and other realms
outside of Gensokyo. He obtains many of these items through dealings
with Yukari Yakumo. He only succeeds because of a lack of competition,
as he is surly and has no sense of business. He's half youkai, and a
childhood friend of Marisa (who calls him "Kourin"), who he's also
provided with a number of her magic items. His most treasured possession
is his heater from the outside world, which keeps his store warm even in
winter.

*Mokou of Fujiwara* is a human who became immortal some 1300 years ago.
She is sometimes seen around the human village, and is a friend of
Keine, but prefers to stay by herself and does not socialize with the
other humans. Over the long time she has been alive, she has learned
much about magic, and is now thanks to the her control of fire as
powerful as any strong youkai. She often provides escort for humans
outside the village. She claims to run a
[yakitori](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yakitori) stand.

She is the sworn enemy of Kaguya Houraisan, who we will visit next.

### Eientei

The Eientei is a large mansion hidden deep in the bamboo forest. It is
only recently that people have noticed this mansion exists at all, as
the bewildering bamboo forest is usually avoided by most people.

*Kaguya Houraisan* is the lady of the Eientei. She is Kaguya-hime from
[the tale of the bamboo
cutter](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Tale_of_the_Bamboo_Cutter), a
princess of the moon banished to live on Earth as punishment for her
crimes. But unlike in the tale, she never returned to the moon.

Her crime was to have *Eirin Yagokoro*, a brilliant medicine-maker on
the moon, make her an immortality elixir, and drink it. When her crimes
were pardoned and the emissaries from the moon came to bring her back,
she found she had grown fond of the people of the Earth and did not want
to return. Eirin was among the emissaries, and out of guilt over Kaguya
being punished for her actions, she killed the other emissaries and took
Kaguya into hiding. The place they settled was Gensokyo, 1300 years in
the past, where Kaguya used her powers over eternity to hide their
living place in the bamboo forest.

However, her actions while living on Earth earned her an enemy in Mokou
of Fujiwara, who was enraged when Kaguya humiliated her father after he
asked for her hand in marriage. To get revenge, she stole the
immortality elixir and drank it. The two have been killing each other
ever since, but as neither can permanently die this fight does not end.
Nevertheless, Mokou often escorts humans to the Eientei for medical care
by Eirin, and has even been seen visiting it on her own. It's
complicated.

As the moon is known for its rabbits, Kaguya has also gathered rabbits
around her at the Eientei. *Tewi Inaba* is an ancient youkai rabbit of
the Earth, who has at some point come to live at there. She is a
trickster, but also brings great luck. She is the rabbit told of in the
tale of the [white rabbit of
Inaba](http://www.aa01.com/jculture/jcl-e/4000/4026.html). In more
modern spelling, her name would be "Tei".

*Reisen Udongein Inaba* is a moon rabbit, who arrived at the Eientei
after deserting her comrades in a war against the humans of the outside
world, triggered by the push to explore the moon. Kaguya took her in as
a fellow escapee from the moon. Reisen is her old name, Udongein is
Eirin's nickname for her and Inaba is what Kaguya calls all rabbits.

Lately, the Eientei has been opening up towards the rest of Gensokyo,
with Eirin selling medicine to the inhabitants, and Kaguya hosting
events at the mansion.

### The River Sanzu

The river Sanzu is the river separating the world of the living from the
afterlife. It does not flow through Gensokyo, but it is possible to
travel from Gensokyo to its shores. It is, however, not possible to
cross it unless you are dead. On the far shore is Higan, where the souls
of the dead are judged.

*Komachi Onozuka* is one of the gods of death who ferry souls across the
river to Higan. She transports the souls of Gensokyo. However, she is
extremely lazy and often neglects her job.

This causes troubles for her superior, *Yamaxanadu Shikieiki*. She is a
Yama, more commonly known as "Enma", whose job is to judge the souls of
the deceased, to determine whether they are sent to hell or to the
netherworld to await enlightenment or reincarnation. She, too, deals
mostly with the souls of Gensokyo. She is extremely moralistic, and will
lecture people endlessly about their sins, which makes people avoid her,
even if all she says is true.

### Youkai Mountain

Gensokyo's largest mountain is Youkai Mountain. A home to a great number
of youkai since antiquity, it has formed its own mostly separate society
within Gensokyo. It is often referred to simply as "the mountain", much
like the human village is "the village" and the misty lake near the
Scarlet Devil Mansion is just "the lake".

In the rivers at its base live the
[kappa](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kappa_(folklore)), and on its peak
the [tengu](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tengu), and in the forests
surrounding it live a great number of youkai. The kappa and tengu have
developed their own technology which is said to rival that of the
outside world.

*Nitori Kawashiro* is a one of the kappa living at the foot of Youkai
Mountain. She is an engineer, and quite shy. She seems to have managed
to befriend Marisa since they met during the events of Mountain of Faith
(more about those later).

*Aya Shameimaru* is a crow tengu living on Youkai Mountain who fancies
herself a journalist. She writes and publishes Gensokyo's only
newspaper, the Bunbunmaru News, which is filled mostly with the wild
rumours and gossip she is constantly collecting around Gensokyo. She is
clever and cheerful, but her writings make her less than well-liked. She
is an avid photographer, taking many photos for her newspaper articles.

*Momiji Inubashiri* is a white wolf tengu, and a subordinate of Aya. She
guards the mountain from intruders. She is dutiful and obedient, a rare
trait in youkai, but perhaps more common for a tengu.

### The Moriya Shrine

The Moriya Shrine was originally a shrine in the outside world. *Sanae
Kochiya* is its priestess. She is a distant descendant of a goddess, and
although she had the power to call down divine miracles, she managed to
live a life as a fairly normal girl.

However, as faith in the old gods was on the decline, the shrine's
goddess, *Kanako Yasaka*, decided it was time for a change. Gods rely on
the faith of their worshippers for their power, and Kanako sacrificed
what little faith she had left to move the entire shire and its
neighbouring lake to Gensokyo, staking their future on gaining the faith
of the youkai there. The shrine ended up on top of Youkai Mountain.

After some initial mishaps and miscalculations, the plan was largely a
success, and the Moriya Shrine came to an understanding with local
youkai, who were in the end glad to have an excuse to arrange feasts and
parties, and Kanako's powers grew again. Always a progressive force,
Kanako has been working on introducing nuclear power to the industry of
the kappa and tengu on Youkai Mountain.

Kanako was not actually the original goddess of the Moriya Shrine.
*Suwako Moriya* was, but she was defeated by Kanako in a battle a long
time ago. However, Kanako found she could not take over the faith of her
worshippers at the time, and the two finally came to an agreement where
they created an imaginary god named Moriya, and shared the faith it was
given. Suwako is more powerful than Kanako, and is the one supplying
most of the miracles in this arrangement. Desipte their disagreements,
they are actually quite good friends now.

Suwako was not quite convinced by Kanako's plan to move the shrine to
Gensokyo, but came around to it after meeting the strange and powerful
humans who lived there. Sanae, who was used to being considered almost a
divinity herself for her powers, suddenly found herself to be nothing
out of the ordinary among the denizens of Gensokyo. After getting over
her initial fear of the absurd world she had arrived in, she has been
starting to fit in. Lately, she's even tried her hand at resolving
incidents by herself.

### Heaven

Heaven is the home of the celestials, humans who have freed themselves
of worldly desires and ascended to heaven, or who have achieved
enlightenment and reached Nirvana. It is a realm of slow and pleasurable
living. Those humans who did not reach Nirvana still retain a physical
body, and can leave heaven and visit the surface, where they appear much
like gods. Their bodies are poisonous to youkai, who also fear them.

*Tenshi Hinanai* ascended to heaven only because her clan was rewarded
for their work for the gods. She never had to purify her soul as most
celestial did before ascending, and thus remains selfish and demanding.
Life in heaven bores her immensely, and she envies the hustle and bustle
of life on the surface in Gensokyo, and therefore she uses her
considerable powers to create trouble, wishing for the excitement that
will ensue when the people on the surface respond.

### Hell

Hell exists underground, below Gensokyo. Hell is not only where the
souls of condemned humans reside, but also a place where powerful youkai
who have been banished from the surface live. However, hell has been
downsized, and no longer fills up all the spaces underground.

The bridge to hell is guarded by *Parsee Mizuhashi*, a youkai of
jealousy. She was only supposed to ensure people's safe passage when
travelling between the underworld and the surface, but her jealousy of
their joyous travels overcame her, and now she just blocks the passage.

### The Ancient City

The Ancient City is an old settlement that was once part of hell, but
has since been abandoned. After leaving Gensokyo, the oni took up
residence here, and spend their days drinking and partying along with
any youkai who have been sent underground.

*Yuugi Hoshiguma* is one of those oni, and was called one of the Four
Devas of the Mountains, along with Suika Ibuki. She is extremely
powerful, but cheerful and outgoing. She loves to fight, but only for
fun, and will go easy on anyone who takes her up on it.

### The Palace of Earth Spirits

The Palace of Earth Spirits sits outside hell proper, just like the
Ancient City. It is the home of *Satori Komeiji*, whose job it is to
control the various spirits who have taken up residence underground.

However, she has the ability to read the minds of humans and youkai, and
thus people fear her. She withdrew to the palace, and surrounded herself
with pets who would not fear her ability, but rather appreciated it as
they could not speak their minds for themselves.

As the number of her pets increased, she found it hard to find time to
take care of them. So she started delegating tasks to her more clever
pets. To her most trusted pets, she delegated the task of running hell
itself.

*Rin Kaenbyou*, a two-tailed cat often referred to simply as *O-rin*,
she put in charge of transporting the corpses of the dead to the
furnaces of hell, where they would be burned to keep the fires of hell
alive.

*Utsuho Reiuji*, a hell raven similarly referred to as *O-kuu*, was put
in charge of running the fires of hell. She would control the fires and
load them with the corpses Rin provided. However, one day she was
approached by Kanako Yasaka, who offered her the power of nuclear
energy, by having her eat a yatagarasu, a three-legged crow of divine
power. Because Utsuho was a bit of a bird-brain, this plan also ran into
some problems, but it was eventually resolved, and the nuclear power
experiments proceed as planned.

Satori also has a sister, *Koishi Komeiji*. She possessed the same
power, but to avoid the fear and rejection faced by her sister, she
sealed it away. However, this also effectively sealed away her own
heart, and left her instead with the power to take action unconsciously.
She would come and go on a whim, and walk the world aimlessly. She was
lonely, but could not realize it. Out of pity, Satori had her pets play
with her and gave her some pets of her own to take care of, hoping she
would once again open her heart.

### The Treasure Ship

*Byakuren Hijiri* was the sister of a great buddhist monk, Myouren. She
learned the buddhist arts from him, and gained powers of her own. But
once he died, she became fearful of death. She desperately sought out
magic that would let her regain her youth, and she succeeded. However,
in doing so she had moved far past her buddhist origins, and became a
magician.

She now had her eternal youth, but now she instead feared that she would
lose her power. She realized her powers originated in people's belief in
them, and that the youkai represented the magic that she also drew on,
and thus she sought to preserve them. She acted as a youkai
exterminator, but she secretly helped the youkai she was sent to
eradicate. She eventually grew to understand the youkai, and came to
truly feel the need to protect them.

Her soaring popularity among the youkai made her feared by humans, even
though she never favoured one over the other, but only sought to let
them co-exist. She was finally sealed away in the demon world by humans,
and everything related to her was buried deep underground.

*Minamitsu Murasa* was a youkai saved by Byakuren. She was the ghost of
a girl who had fallen from a ship and drowned. She used to spend her
days capsizing ships, and the fear she instilled turned her into a
youkai. Byakuren was sent to exterminate her, but instead faced her
unarmed, and created a replica of the ship from which she had fallen,
and gave it to her to sail in. She was sealed underground along with
everything else related to Byakuren, but was eventually released, and
decided to take her ship on a mission to revive Byakuren.

She found a crew of youkai who also held Byakuren in high esteem, such
as the mouse youkai *Nazrin*. Nazrin is a dowser who command mice, who
help her search for the things she wants to find. Her work on the ship
was to find the fragments of Byakuren's shattered "soaring vault", the
tobikura, and the jeweled pagoda of Bishamonten.

The jeweled pagoda of Bishamonten was originally kept by *Shou
Toramaru*, a tiger youkai who Byakuren had chosen to work as the
disciple of the god Bishamonten (as he was too busy to spend much time
at his temple), but she lost it. She continued her work of standing in
for Bishamonten even after Byakuren was sealed away, hiding the fact
that she was just youkai from the humans who worshipped her. When Murasa
and her crew finally arrived and she learned of their plan to resurrect
Byakuren, she finally decided to leave her temple and join them,
secretly asking Nazrin to find the jeweled pagoda for her again.

*Ichirin Kumoi* also joined the crew as a guard. She also has great
respect for Byakuren, for treating all youkai kindly, even *Unzan*, the
cloud youkai who is her partner. Unzan is a stubborn and quiet old man,
while Ichirin is quick-witted and clever, and good at gettign Unzan to
do her bidding.

*Nue Houjuu* is a [nue](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nue), a
particularly fearsome kind of youkai. She can hide the true forms of
things, and herself. She liked to scare people, and used to spend her
days doing just that, but she grew bored of it and moved underground.
However, the same events that released Murasa to the surface also took
Nue with them. When she found out that they were plotting something, she
started secretly intefering with them for her own amusement. She
eventually came to understand Byakuren and her ideals, and ended up
staying at her temple once she was revived.

Youkai and creatures of the fields and forests
----------------------------------------------

Not everybody in Gensokyo has a steady home in one of the regular
settlements. Many youkai and creatures prefer to live in the open,
moving around wherever their whim takes them, or settling in some
particular part of nature.

One such would be *Yuuka Kazami*, an old and immensely powerful flower
youkai. Her only real interest is in flowers, and she will move wherever
the flowers of the season are blooming. She is extremely strong and
ruthless, and is widely feared. She is, however, very polite and does
not pick fights with those who do not go out of their way to anger her.
She also has little interest in fighting those weaker than her, but
prefers a formal match against a capable opponent. Her battles are said
to be a particularly beautiful sight.

### Fairies

Gensokyo has a very large population of fairies. They are small, not
particularly bright, and easily excitible. They like to live in trees,
with which they form a symbiotic relationship. When incidents occur,
they tend to get particularly excited, swarming around and attacking
unsuspecting bypassers. However, they are quite weak.

There are fairies pretty much everywhere in Gensokyo, where they might
take on particular local roles. The Scarlet Devil Mansion employs
fairies as maids, although it is unclear if there is any real use in
doing so, as they are not very good workers. There are also even zombie
fairies in hell.

There are some fairies that have managed to rise to prominence above
their usually unremarkable kind. *Cirno* is the fairy of ice, who
usually spends her days around the misty lake by the Scarlet Devil
Mansion, but will travel wherever her fancy takes her. She is extremely
powerful for a fairy, and this has led her to believe that she is, in
fact, the strongest in all of Gensokyo. Her exceptional strength is not
really matched by any particular increase in mental capacity over the
other fairies.

*Daiyousei* is another of the more powerful fairies, often spotted
around the same places as Cirno. She is perhaps brighter but not as
powerful as Cirno.

The "three mischievous fairies", *Sunny Milk,*Luna Child*and*Star
Sapphire\* are three fairies most often seen around the magic forest.
They (like many other fairies) love nothing more than playing pranks on
people, and will combine their powers to pull off their pranks. They are
otherwise quite weak and harmless. They dream of one day creating an
incident in Gensokyo of their very own.

*Lily White* is seen in Gensokyo as the surest sign that spring has
come. She appears from the east in spring, and eventally disappears
towards Youkai Mountain. As the season give her quite a bit of power,
and because she gets very excited, it's best to leave her alone to avoid
being attacked. She means no harm, and should be admired from a
distance.

### The seasons

Lily White is not the only being representing a season in Gensokyo.
*Letty Whiterock* is a youkai who only appears in winter, and especially
on very cold days or in blizzards. She attacks people with cold, and is
feared among the humans population. She seems to be a friend of Cirno's.

The Aki sisters, *Minoriko* and *Shizuha Aki*, are goddesses of autumn.
Minoriko, the younger sister, is a goddess of harvest, and Shizuha, the
older, a goddess of falling leaves. They oversee autumn together.
Minoriko, as a harvest goddess, is worshipped at the village during
their harvest festival.

### The Baquartet

The Baquartet - a portmonteau of the japanese word "baka" for "idiot",
and "quartet", are an informal group of four youkai who have made
themselves particular well known for not being all that bright. They
roam the fields of Gensokyo and attempt to attack humans, but are not
particularly powerful. The first of them is Cirno, who has already been
mentioned.

Another is *Rumia*, a youkai who controls darkness. She is usually
shrouded in an unnatural darkness which even torches cannot dispell.
However, she herself can't see much in this darkness, and tends to get
lost.

*Wriggle Nightbug* is a firefly youkai. Firefly, unlike most bugs, are
appreciated by humans, so they stand a good chance of living long enough
to turn into a youkai. She controls other insects and uses them to
attack humans.

*Mystia Lorelei* is a night sparrow youkai. Her song can cause confusion
and madness, and also night blindness, which she uses to attack people
at night. Her side business, however, is a grilled lamprey stand.
Lamprey is said to cure night blindness, giving her an easy way to drum
up business. It's not actually very effective, but as she can just stop
causing it, she can fake it well enough.

### The Poltergeist Mansion

The Poltergeist Mansion exists somewhere in Gensokyo, but is of little
importance except for being the original home of the Prismriver Sisters,
*Lunasa*, *Merlin* and *Lyrica Prismriver*. They are the spirits of
three out of four sisters who lived in the mansion long ago, when it
existed in the outside world. It is long since gone there, but remains
in Gensokyo. The sisters are now musicians, and form the only musical
ensemble in Gensokyo. As such, they are quite popular. They play violin,
trumpet and keyboard, respectively, without using their hands.

### Dolls

*Medicine Melancholy* is a young doll youkai. She was a doll who was
discarded in a field of lilies-of-the-valley, and eventually turned into
a youkai. She specializes in poisons. She hates humans for their
treatment of dolls, who she wants to set free. She has trouble finding
compatriots for her cause, as most dolls can not actually move on their
own, as she does. She is quite immature, and her lack of experience
makes her unpredictable and dangerous.

*Hina Kagiyama* is a cursed god, who lives in the forest surrounding
Youkai Mountain. She gathers up curses that have been expelled by humans
through the nagashi-bina ritual, where curses are transferred to dolls,
which are then cast into a river to be carried away. This way she keeps
them from returning to haunt humans again.

### Underground

There are plenty of dangerous youkai living underground. On the way to
the Ancient City or hell, one might encounter *Yamame Kurodani*, a
spider-like youkai who is actually a
[tsuchigumo](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tsuchigumo) with control over
diseases. One might also meet *Kisume*, a shy youkai who likes to drop
onto people from above, but usually prefers to live in a bucket.

### The sky

*Iku Nagae* is an oarfish youkai, who is an envoy of the Dragon Palace.
She spends most of her time swimming through clouds, watching over the
dragon. The dragon is the highest god in all of Gensokyo, and the cause
of all weather and earthquake, as well as the one who created the land
in the first place. Her ability is to read the atmosphere, be it the
weather or the atmosphere of humans, which lets her fit in perfectly in
any company. She will merely go with the flow, leaving her univolved and
lazy.

*Kogasa Tatara* is a [karakasa](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kasa-obake)
who also lives in the skies above Gensokyo. Being a traditionally scary
type of youkai, she wants to scare people, but she is not very good at
it.

Incidents
---------

As previously mentioned, Gensokyo has a tendency to get embroiled in
*incidents*. These are usually caused by one youkai or other taking
actions that have consequnces across the entire land, for their own
selfish reasons. These incidents are usually resolved by the miko (as
Reimu is usually simply referred to) going into action, and forcing
everyone to stop whatever it is they are doing.

Youkai tend to enjoy these incidents, for their novelty and excitement.
Fairies also tend to pick up on the excitement and start swarming.

A summary of all the most important incidents in recent times follow, in
chronological order, and titled after the game or other work that depict
those events. The incidents are dated in Gensokyo's date system, which
counts years from the time of sealing in 1885. Thus, the years ranging
from 118 to 124 correspond to the years 2003 to 2009 in the outside
world.

Also, we assume that in all cases, it is Reimu who goes into action,
although in the games there is also the option for Marisa to do so, and
various other characters from earlier games. Smaller events, such as
those depicted in the game extra stages, are left out.

### The Embodiment of Scarlet Devil

In the summer of year 118, a thickening scarlet mist enveloped all of
Gensokyo. The mist not only blocked visibility, but also blocked enough
of the sun to make the summer unusually cool.

The miko, following her keen intuition, heads towards the misty lake,
where she runs into *Rumia* and *Cirno*, who have nothing to do with the
incident but fight her anyway. Continuing towards the source of the
mist, she enters the Scarlet Devil Mansion, where *Hong Meiling*,
*Patchouli Knowledge* and *Sakuya Izayoi* all try to stop her, but fail.
She finally meets the mistress, *Remilia Scarlet*, and finds that she
has been creating the mist because as a vampire she can not stand
sunlight. Reimu defeats her, and makes her stop spreading the mist, and
the incident is resolved.

### Perfect Cherry Blossom

Spring in the year 119 was late. The cherries were supposed to be
blooming, but instead a blizzard was blowing. However, there were still
cherry petals dancing in the wind.

The miko heads upwind, trying to find where the petals and the blizzard
are coming from. In her aimless searching around Gensokyo, she runs into
*Cirno* who makes another even less successful attempt to fight her,
*Letty Whiterock*, *Chen*, and *Alice Margatroid*. After these fruitless
encounters, she finally notices the cherry blossoms are blowing in from
high above the clouds. Heading upwards, she encounters *Lily White* and
her overly enthusiastic heralding of spring, and the *Prismriver
sisters* preparing for a performance by the entrance to the netherworld.

The netherworld is where the petals are coming from, and that is where
the miko heads. *Youmu Konpaku* attempts to stop her, revealing that she
is the one who has been collecting spring itself from Gensokyo, in order
to revive a youkai cherry tree in the netherworld that has been sealed
from blooming for centuries. She was ordered to do this by *Yuyuko
Saigyouji*, who wishes to revive a soul buried below the tree, that she
read about in ancient records.

While fighting Yuyuko, the seal is finally broken, the cherry tree
manages to bloom, and the soul beneath is temporarily released - and it
is Yuyuko's own, having been sealed away to prevent her from ever
reincarnating again, as her powers only bring her unhappiness as a
human. Yuyuko, being terribly absent-minded, had forgotten all about
this. The miko manages to seal her once again, and the incident is
resolved.

### Immaterial and Missing Power

In the summer of year 119, an unusual amount of partying and feasting
was taking place in Gensokyo. A mysterious mist was also once again seen
around Gensokyo. The miko, and many others besides, set out to find out
what is actually going on.

Through various different paths, people discover that the person
responsible is *Suika Ibuki*, an oni who has returned to Gensokyo after
the exodus of the oni long ago. She wishes to reunite the oni and
humans, and is using her powers to gather people for feasts, to lure out
the other oni, who all love feasting and drinking. The mist is actually
herself, as she can spread herself out into tiny particles, to take part
in the partying without being noticed.

She is convinced to stop, and the incident is resolved.

### Imperishable Night

Later in the summer of year 119, as the humans and youkai were preparing
for the harvest moon viewing, some of the wiser youkai noticed that
something was wrong with the moon. It has been replaced by a fake. As
the full moon is very important to the youkai, this needed to be taken
care of, so the moon viewing could proceed properly.

*Yukari Yakumo* fetches the miko, and they both head out to find who has
hidden the moon. To prevent the fake moon from becoming full, the stop
the night, leaving Gensokyo in an eternal night while they undertake
their investigation.

They encounter some unimportant youkai who get in their way, such as
*Wriggle Nightbug* and *Mystia Lorelei*, and also have a
misunderstanding with *Keine Kamishrasawa*, who thinks they are
attacking the human village as they happen to pass by. Keine points them
towards the bamboo forest. On their way there, *Marisa Kirisame*
interrupts them, as she is investigating the incident created by the
fact that the night has been stopped. After being defeated, she backs
off, and the pair notices the existence of the Eientei inside the bamboo
forest, and head there.

*Tewi Inaba* and *Reisen Udongein Inaba* try to prevent them from
entering, as does *Eirin Yagokoro*, who is revealed to be the one who
replaced the moon. On orders of *Kaguya Houraisan*, the mistress of the
house, she did so to seal the Earth off from the moon. People from the
moon can only travel to Earth during a full moon, so by replacing the
full moon in the sky over Gensokyo, they would be prevented from
reaching it. The people of the moon had been threating to come and bring
Reisen back to fight in their war against the humans, and to protect her
Kaguya had the path sealed.

However, the Great Hakurei Border would be quite enough to keep them
out. After defeating Kaguya, the full moon is restored, the night is
restarted, the people from the moon fail to appear, and the a
particularly complicated incident is resolved.

[](kaeizuka)

### Phantasmagoria of Flower View

In spring of the year 120, flowers suddenly started blooming all over
Gensokyo. Not just spring flowers, but flowers of all season, in
unprecedented numbers. This was clearly an incident, but few felt it was
particularly dangerous. Nevertheless, many of Gensokyo's residents set
out to find out what was going on, or just to enjoy the flowers.

The miko, worried that people would think her lazy if she wasn't seen
doing something, also set out to find the cause. After encountering the
many others who were also investigating or moving about for their own
reasons, she noticed that not only were there an unusual number of
flowers and fairies to go with them, but also a large number of spirits.
This leads her to the river Sanzu, where ferrywoman *Komachi Onozuka* is
slacking off. Too many souls had been arriving for her to ferry across
lately, and she didn't feel like picking up her pace, but was waiting
for things to calm down again. The large number of souls waiting for
transit had started to flow back into Gensokyo, and lacking bodies were
possessing flowers, causing them to bloom.

*Yamaxanadu Shikieiki*, Komachi's superior, catches wind of what is
going on and appears to scold Komachi and gets her to start ferrying
quicker, which mostly resolves the incident. However, Shikieiki can not
resist the opportunity to lecture the miko on her faults, and one final
battle takes place.

### Silent Sinner in Blue

In spring of the year 122, *Yukari Yakumo* launches a plan to invade the
capital of the moon. She enlists the help of various youkai throughout
Gensokyo, and also that of the miko, who she trains to summon the powers
of the gods for the purpose. The miko goes along with the plan without
much enthusiasm, while the various factions of youkai plot and scheme.
The Scarlet Devil Mansion produces a rocket to travel to the moon,
powered by the miko's newfound divine powers.

The inhabitants of the Lunar Capital mostly deflect the invasion with
the help of their old comrades in Gensokyo, and having satisfied her
curiosity, the mistress of the Scarlet Devil Mansion returns to Gensokyo
along with everyone else.

(This incident is not only depicted in the manga series *Silent Sinner
in Blue*, but also tangentially in the light novel series *Cage in
Lunatic Runagate*, and the manga *Inaba of the Moon and Inaba of the
Earth*).

### Mountain of Faith

Sometime in the year 122, *Kanako Yasaka* moves the entire Moriya Shrine
and its surroundings into Gensokyo, to the top of Youkai Mountain, in an
attempt to gather the faith of its youkai to replace the declining faith
it received in the outside world. Tension starts to build between the
newcomer shrine and the youkai, tengu and kappa of Youkai Mountain, as
the old balance of power starts to shift.

In autumn of 122, the inhabitants of the Moriya shrine set out to
challenge the Hakurei shrine for the position as the main shrine of
Gensokyo. The miko obviously does not take kindly to this, and sets out
for Youkai Mountain. After running into the gods *Shizuha* and *Minoriko
Aki* on the way, as well as *Hina Kagiyama*, the miko is warned away by
the kappa *Nitori Kawashiro* at the foot of the mountain. None of them
manage to stop the miko, who proceeds up the mountain where she is again
blocked by the tengu *Momiji Inubashiri* and *Aya Shameimaru*, who
ultimately decide to let her past in the hopes that she will deal with
the disturbance caused by the appearance of the Moriya shrine.

Once she reaches the shrine, the miko faces its priestess *Sanae
Kochiya* and finally the goddess *Kanako Yasaka*, who after being
defeated agree to reconsider their approach and find a better way to
coexists with the youkai of the mountain. The youkai finally see the new
shrine as a good excuse for festivals and parties, and Kanako starts
working to develop the area together with the technologically advanced
kappa and tengu.

### Scarlet Weather Rhapsody

In summer of the year 123, strange weather once again besets Gensokyo.
Each part of the land has its own troublesome weather, and each one
seems to be different. Finally, a very localized earthquake occurs that
levels the Hakurei shrine. The miko has no choice but to head out to
investigate, as do many others.

After travelling across Gensokyo and experiencing many different kinds
of weather while looking for clues, the miko finds *Iku Nagae*, who says
she is there to warn of an earthquake, and is surprised to find that it
has already happened. She finally reveals her suspicion that it is all
the work of *Tenshi Hinanai*, which turns out to be true. The celestial
has been bored by the carefree life in heaven, and has travelled to the
Earth to cause an incident of her own in Gensokyo. She has observed them
in the past, and wants one of her own to create some excitement.

The miko defeats her, and gets her to stop, and to rebuild the shrine.

### Subterranean Animism

In winter of the year 123, a geyser suddenly erupts near the Hakurei
shrine. The miko does not see this as much of a problem, as it provides
her with a hot spring which she hopes will attract more visitors to the
shrine.

The geyser also spews out spirits from deep underground. As these
spirits turn out to be quite well-behaved and mostly keep to themselves,
she does not see them as a problem either, not in a land where ghosts
and youkai run rampant every day. The wiser youkai, however, see a
problem, as greater powers have been exiled underground that can not be
allowed to be released on the surface again. *Patchouli Knowledge* and
*Yakumo Yukari* agree that something needs to be done, but because of
the arrangements made with the inhabitants of the underworld, they as
youkai can not directly act, but need a human to travel underground for
them.

The miko is not interested, but is convinced to head down anyway. She
runs into the underground youkai *Yamame Kurodani* and *Kisume*, who get
in her way, and *Parsee Mizuhashi* who jealously defends the bridge to
hell. None of them can, of course, stop the miko, who proceeds to the
Ancient City of Former Hell, where *Yuugi Hoshiguma* quickly catches
wind of the appearance of an intruder, and goes out to fight her for
fun. After being given a good fight, Yuugi points the way to the Palace
of the Earth Spirits, where *Satori Komeiji* lives.

Satori is defended by her pet cat *Rin Kaenbyou*. Having defeated them
both, Satori explains that she has left her pets in charge of hell, and
the geyser is probably their fault. The miko heads down towards hell
proper, where she again encounters Rin, who after being defeated
explains that her friend, the hell raven *Utsuho Reiuji*, has gained a
new power and become too powerful. She has decided to turn the surface
world into a part of hell too, using her power. The geyser was a
byproduct of Utsuho's newfound powers fuelling the flames of hell, and
Rin sent the spirits up to the surface as a call for help, to find
someone to get Utsuho back to her senses.

The miko defeats Utsuho, and finds she ate a yatagarasu, an ancient
powerful creature, and gained the power of nuclear fission and fusion.
She was given the yatagarasu by *Kanako Yasaka*, as part of her project
to develop nuclear power for the industry of Youkai Mountain. Utusho,
being easily distracted, got carried away by her new powers and started
trying to expand hell, which has been in decline for a while, for her
master. She is convinced to stop, and Kanako's nuclear power project
gets back on track.

### Undefined Fantastic Object

In spring of the year 124, the miko hears rumours of a ship carrying
treasure sailing in the skies above Gensokyo. She is skeptical but
somewhat curious, and once *Sanae Kochiya* confirms there is actually a
ship, she sets out to chase it down.

She encounters *Nazrin* and *Kogasa Tatara* while attempting to catch up
with the ship, and finally *Ichirin Kumoi* and *Unzan*, who all try to
stop her from reaching the ship. She defeats them, and Ichirin notices
she's collected fragments of the soaring vault, which the crew of the
ship needs. The miko is let on board, where she finds the ship contains
no treasure after all. She faces the captain, *Minamitsu Murasa*, and
finds that they are headed towards the demon world, makai, to resurrect
their savior *Byakuren Hijiri*, having been released them to the surface
by the geysers caused by the previous incident.

As the ship heads into the demon world, the miko has another fight with
*Shou Toramaru*, who thanks to Nazrin has regained her jeweled pagoda of
Bishamonten, but lets her proceed with the unsealing in order to finish
things once and for all.

The miko finally faces Byakuren herself, who tells her of her philosophy
of equality of humans, youkai and gods. The miko is not very impressed,
and defeats her in a battle. However, she does not really have much
reason to take things any further, and leaves Byakuren and her crew
alone and lets them sail on to fund a new temple for their cause.

### Touhou Hisoutensoku

In the summer 124, a mysterious giant is seen lumbering around Gensokyo,
shrouded in a tepid mist. This time, however, the usual miko does not
set out to investigate, but rather *Sanae Kochiya* wants to try her hand
at disaster resolution. She also has fond memories of the giant robot
anime she used to watch in the outside world, and decides to believe the
mysterious giant is, in fact, such a robot, for her own amusement.

She sets out to look for clues, encountering and defeating a number of
youkai and other inhabitants of Gensokyo, until she she finally finds
that the giant is the creation of *Suwako Moriya*, the goddess from her
own shrine, who has been keeping it a secret.

Created by [Dag Ågren/WAHa.06x36](javascript:send_mail()) on Mon 21 Dec
2009, and last modified on Sun 28 Feb 2010.

Filed under [visual culture](tags/visual%20culture.html),
[touhou](tags/touhou.html), [youkai](tags/youkai.html),
[writing](tags/writing.html), [it's
complicated](tags/it's%20complicated.html), [it never
ends](tags/it%20never%20ends.html).
